program. If an associate has elected Supplemental Benefits, it is the associate’s 
responsibility to contact the appropriate provider to set -up direct bill.  
1.2.2  In the event there is less than ninety  days between an associate’s return to work  
from one leave and the start date of another leave, the time spent on the prior leave 
will be counted for purposes of determining the length of benefits continuation, where 
allowed by law. For example, if an associate is on medical leave for 1 month, returns 
to work fo r 60 days, and then takes another medical leave, they shall be entitled to 
two additional months of benefits coverage  and then will be eligible to continue benefits under the COBRA program.
 
1.2.3  To the extent an associate is using  accrued PTO, insurance premiums 
will be automatically  deducted fr om the associate’s  paycheck.  
1.2.4  If an associate’s  available  paid time off is depleted or if the associate’s  paycheck  is 
insufficient to cover the total premium, the associate is responsible for the payment of 
the remainder of the premium due.  
1.2.5  When  an associate’s  pay is insufficient  to pay for benefit  premiums,  s/he will be 
required to set up a payment arrangement with the HR  department.  
1.2.6  Failure to pay a premium according to the timing agreed upon may result in 
the termination of the associate’s  insurance coverage,  and MDB  may recover  f 
rom the associate the costs of any health insurance premiums it has paid on 
behalf of the associate.  
1.2.7  For purposes  of retirement  and savings  plans,  service credits  during  a leave  of 
absence will be determined under the appropriate plan documents.  
1.2.8  Associates’  Basic  Life Insurance coverage will be governed in accordance with the 
plan document.  
 
1.3 JOB PROTECTION WHILE ON  LEAVE  
1.3.1  Job protection  varies  by type of leave.  See the detailed leave  policies  for 
more information.  
1.3.2  Under all policies, if an associate’s position is eliminated or otherwise ceases to 
exist while  on leave  ,  the leave  may be 
terminated and the associate’s right to return to work would be the same as any 
other associate under similar circumstances.  
 
1.4 INTERMITTENT LEAVE   
1.4.1  Leave may be available on an intermittent or reduced work schedule basis, 
only as required  by law. Requests  for intermittent  time off will be handled  on a 
case- by-case basis in accordance with applicable  laws.  
1.4.2  Associates  must  give 30 days’  notice  of the need for an intermittent  leave,  and unless  
otherwise limited by law, may not take intermittent absences until the leave is 
approved.  I f 30 days’  notice is not practicable;  notice  must  be given  as soon as 
practicable.  
1.4.3  Under FMLA, some special rules apply to intermittent  absences:     
 
30 
 1.4.3.1 Associates  must  make a reasonable effort  to arrange scheduled  
intermittent absences so as not to unduly interrupt MDB ’s operations.  
1.4.3.2 MDB may require  associates to transfer  temporarily  to another position  for which  
the 
associate is qualified, that would provide equivalent pay and benefits and better 
accommodate scheduled intermittent absences.  
1.4.3.3 Associates  must  comply  with MD Billing ’ usual  and customary  policies  for 
reporting leaves and absences, including “call in” and other absence 
reporting  
processes. If an associate does not comply with the employer’s usual notice 
andprocedural requirements, and no unusual circumstances justify the failure to comply, the associate may be subject to attendance discipline.
 
1.4.3.4 Intermittent absences  may be approved  only as estimated by a health  care 
provider.  
If the frequency or duration of absences exceeds the provider’s estimate, MDB  
will require a new certification.  
1.4.3.5 MDB may seek a second opinion when certifying an intermittent absence, if  MDB  
has reason to doubt the value of the certification. An example of when a second 
opinion may be sought is when a pattern of absences is evident, and this is 
different than what the provider estimated . In a case where the 
second opinion differs  
from the first opinion, MDB  may obtain the opinion of a third health care provider,  
designated or approved by MDB  and the associate.  
1.4.3.6 The amount of leave available on an intermittent basis depends on the 
associate’s scheduled work hours. For associates with a variable  
work schedule, a 12 -week average of scheduled work hours will be used. Under 
FMLA the amount of leave available is calculated by multiplying average 
scheduled weekly work  hours by 
12. For example, an associate who works 30 hours a week has 360 hours of FMLA available. This calculation is made when a new leave is approved and is 
held constant for that leave. Should the associate apply for another leave, for another reason, the amount of available leave may be adjusted to reflect 
changes to the associate’s scheduled work hours.
 
 
1.5 APPLYING FOR A  LEAVE  
1.5.1  Associates  are required to give at least  30 days’  notice  of their desire to take a 
leave  of absence by contacting the Human Resources department at   712-
1096.  
1.5.2  If the need for leave  is unforeseeable,  associates  must  give notice  as soon as 
possible. Failure to give timely notice could result in postponement or denial of 
the requested leave. If no PTO is available, the leave will be unpaid.  
1.5.3  Associates  must  report  absences  in accordance with MDB attendance policies.  
Failure  to do so, even if the leave is protected under FMLA, may result in 
attendance discipline to the extent that the law  allows.  
 
1.6 WHILE ON  LEAVE  
1.6.1  MDB may request additional information or medical certification during the course    
 
31 
 of a leave.  Associates  must promptly  respond to these  requests,  or, to the extent  al 
lowed  by law, further leave may be denied or delayed.  
1.6.2  If the circumstances of the leave  change,  such  as the expected return  date or the 
nature of a medical condition, associates are required to contact the Human 
Resources department as soon as possible.  
1.6.3  All requests  for internal  transfers while on an approved  leave  of absence 
must  be submitted to and approved by the Human Resources  department.  
1.6.4  While  on leave,  the associate may not engage  in other work  or employment  
without notif ication  and approval  from  MDB . 
 
1.7 RECERTIFICATION OF LEAVES UNDER FMLA  
1.7.1  Recertification may be required  every  thirty   days  and/or under  the 
following circumstances:  
1.7.1.1 The associate requests an extension of leave;  
1.7.1.2 Circumstances  described by the original  certification  have changed  significantly  
;  
1.7.1.3 MDB receives  information  that casts doubt  upon  the continuing validity  of the 
certification;  
 
1.8 RETURNING FROM  LEAVE  
1.8.1  Associates  on a continuous  leave of absence must  notify  MDB  at least  one week  
before their scheduled return date to confirm their status and intent to return to 
work by calling the Human Resources  department.  
1.8.2  Associates returning from a leave taken for their own serious health condition 
must submit  a Return  to Work  Release fr om their health care provider  authorizing 
their return to work.  
1.8.3  Prior to returning to work from any type of leave absence, associates must be 
current on all licensure and certifications  required  to perform  the essential  functions  
of their position. If an associate’s licensure or certification is expired, they  will be 
placed on an unpaid administrative leave for 30 days or until licenses and/or 
certifications are current, in accordance with MDB  policy.  
 
1.9 FAILURE TO RETURN TO WORK  
1.9.1  If the associate is not able to or does not wish to return to work at the end of the 
approved leave, the associate may apply for an extension by contacting the HR 
department.  Extensions  will be considered on a case- by-case basis.  MDB reserves  
the right to grant  or deny  such  requests  in its sole discretion  in compliance with 
applicable law and its own  policies.  
1.9.2  It is the associate’s responsibility to report to work at the end of the approved leave. 
Failure  to return  to work  at the scheduled  end of the leave or to obtain  an extension 
of the leave will be considered a voluntary resignation of  employment.  
 
2. Detailed Policy: Leave for the Associate’s Own Serious Health Condition, 
excluding Pregnancy  
 
2.1 PURPOSE  
    
 
32 
 MDB  offers eligible associates a leave of absence for their own illness or injury. This 
includes work -related illness and injury. This leave may be provided in two segments:  
 
• The associate is eligible  for leave  under  the Family  & Medical  Leave Act of 1993.  
, the first portion of the leave, typically up to 12 work weeks in a rolling 
back 12-month period, will be provided as required under these laws.  
• Following  exhaustion of FMLA,  or if the  associate is not eligible for FMLA,  the 
remainder of leave may be provided under MDB ’s Medical Leave or as an ADA 
accommodation. See Medical Leve section for more  information.  
 
2.2 ELIGIBILIITY FOR  LEAVE  
2.2.1  To be eligible for leave under FMLA, an associate:  
• must have worked at MDB  for at least 12 months ,  and 
• must have worked a minimum of 1,250 hours in the 12 months  
immediately prior  to the f irst day of the requested leave,  and 
• must  be employed at a worksite  that employs  50 or more  associates  
within 75 miles of the associate’s  worksite.  
2.2.2  To be eligible for leave under the MDB  Medical Leave policy, an associate:  
• Must be a full- or part-time associate who has been  employed  with MDB  
for at least 6 consecutive months,  and 
• Must not otherwise be eligible for leave under FMLA .  
• In the event  that an associate has been  an associate of MDB  for less 
than 6 consecutive months, medical leave is available only as a 
reasonable accommodation  under  ADA,  or on a case -by-case  basis  is 
approved  by the associate’s department Director and Human 
Resources.  
 
2.3 QUALITIFICATIONS FOR LEAVE  
2.3.1  FMLA  leave  may be taken  because the associate is incapacitated f rom his/her  
own job due to an illness or injury.  
2.3.2  To support  a request  for FMLA  leave,  the associate must  provide  medical  certification  
from a health care provider,  no later than 15 calendar days after it is requested by 
MDB . See MDB  Medical Leave section for information on qualifying for leave not 
covered by FMLA.  
2.4 LEAVE  AVAILABLE  
2.4.1  Eligible  associates  who qualify  for FMLA  leave  are entitled  to 12 work weeks  of 
FMLA leave in a rolling back 12-month period. MDB  defines this period as the 12 
months immediately  prior  to the f irst day of the requested leave.  
• Available FMLA leave  time will be calculated by subtracting  any FMLA 
leave the associate has taken during the preceding 12 months.  
• This 12-work week entitlement includes leave taken for any reason 
under FMLA.  
2.4.2  If an associate has exhausted FMLA,  or is not eligible  for FMLA,  additional  leave  may 
be    
 
33 
 offered under the MDB  medical leave section, or as an ADA accommodation. The 
amount of leave available will be determined on a case- by-case basis. Available 
FMLA leave time will be calculated by subtracting any FMLA leave the associate 
has taken during the preceding 12 months.  
 
2.5 JOB PROTECTION WHILE ON  LEAVE  
2.5.1  If an associate returns from a leave protected under FMLA and has not exceeded 
the maximum  leave entitlement  under those laws,  the associate will be returned  to 
his or her previous position under those laws, the associate will be returned to his 
or her previous position or an equivalent  position.  
2.5.2  Once FMLA leave is exhausted, MDB  is unable to guarantee job protection 
and reinstatement in all  cases.  
 
3. Detailed Policy: Pregnancy Disability Leave  
 
3.1 PURPOSE  
3.1.1  MDB  offers  time off for pregnancy  and childbirth,  which  typically  consist  of 
two components:  
• Leave taken when  an associate is disabled due to pregnancy,  childbirth,  
or a related serious health condition, covered under this policy;  and 
• Leave taken to spend time with the newborn child, covered under  
the Parenting Leave section.  
 
3.2 ELIGIBILITY  
3.2.1  To be eligible for pregnancy  disability  leave  under  FMLA,  an associate  must  have 
worked at MDB  for at least 12 months and worked a minimum of 1,250 hours in the 
12 months immediately  prior  to the f irst day of the requested leave.  
3.2.2  Associates  who are not eligible  for, or have exhausted, FMLA  and/or  PDL may be 
eligible  
for leave under the MDB  Medical Leave section, or as an ADA accommodation.  
 
3.3 LEAVE  AVAILABLE  
3.3.1  Eligible  associates  who qualify  for FMLA  leave  are entitled  to 12 work weeks  of 
FMLA leave in a rolling back 12-month period. MDB  defines this period as the 12 
months immediately  prior  to the f irst day of the requested leave.  
• Available FMLA leave  time will be calculated by subtracting  any FMLA 
leave the associate has taken during the preceding 12 months.  
• This 12-work week entitlement includes leave taken for any reason 
under FMLA.  
3.3.2  The maximum  amount of leave  available  to associates who are not eligible for, or 
have exhausted,  FMLA  will be determined  on a case -by-case basis  under the MDB  
Medical Leave policy.  
 
3.4 JOB PROTECTION WHILE ON  LEAVE  
3.4.1  If an eligible associate returns  f rom a leave protected by FMLA  and has not 
exceeded  the maximum leave entitlement under those laws, they will be returned to 
her previous position or an equivalent  position.     
 
34 
 3.4.2  Once FMLA is exhausted, MDB  is unable to guarantee job protection and 
reinstatement in all cases.  If the associate is on an approved  leave,  at the conclusion  
of leave,  MDB  will reinstate her to the same or similar position, if available.  
 
4. Detailed Policy: Parenting Leave  
 
4.1 PURPOSE  
4.1.1  MDB  offers time to spend time with a new child, including a child who is adopted or 
placed for foster care. Parenting Leave must be completed within 12 months of the 
child’s birth or placement.  
 
4.2 ELIGIBILITY  
4.2.1  To be eligible for leave  under  FMLA, an  associate must have  worked at MDB  for at 
least 12 months  and worked a minimum  of 1,250 hours  in the previous  12 months  
immediately prior  to the f irst day of the requested leave.  
4.2.2  An associate who is not eligible for FMLA may  apply  for Personal  Leave to spend 
time with a new child.  
 
4.3 COVERED  RELATIONSHIPS  
4.3.1  For purposes of FMLA, child means a biological, adopted or foster child, a stepchild, 
a legal  ward,  or a child  of a person  standing  in loco parentis,  who is either under age 
18, or 
age 18 or older and “incapable of self -care because of a mental or physical 
disability” at the time that FMLA leave is to commerce.  
4.3.2  Federal  FMLA  regulations  define in loco parentis  as including those with day -to-day 
responsibilities to care for and/or financially support a child. Associates who have 
no biological or legal relationship with a child may stand in loco parentis to the child 
and be entitled to FMLA leave.  
 
4.4 LEAVE  AVAILABLE  
4.4.1  Eligible  associates  who qualify  for leave  are entitled  to 12 work  weeks  of FMLA  leave  
in a rolling back 12-month period, defined as the 12 months immediately prior to the 
f irst day of the requested leave. This 12-work week entitlement includes leave taken 
for any reason under FMLA.  
4.4.2  Parenting Leave must  be completed  within  12 months  of the child’s  birth or 
placement.  
4.4.3  Associates  may take Parenting  Leave before  the actual  placement  or adoption  of a 
child in an absence f rom work is required for the placement for adoption or foster 
care to proceed. For example, the associate may be required to attend counseling 
sessions, appear in court, consult with his or her attorney or the doctor 
representing the birth parent,  submit  to a physical  examination,  or travel  to complete  
an adoption  or foster  care placement.  
4.4.4  When  both  spouses  are employed by MDB , Parenting Leave is limited  to a 
combined total of twelve  weeks in a 12- month period for absences caused 
by the birth, adoption  of a child,  or placement  of a foster  child,  or to care for a 
parent  with a serious health condition, or due the associate’s own serious health  
illness.     
 
35 
 4.5 LIMITS ON INTERMITTEN LEAVE   
4.5.1  Intermittent  bonding  is only available on an agreed- upon schedule,  by approval  of 
Human Resources, who will work with the manager/supervisor in making this 
determination.  
 
5. Detailed Policy: Family Care Leave  
 
5.1 PURPOSE  
5.1.1  MDB  offers  time off to care for a family  member with a serious  health condition.  
 
5.2 ELIGIBILITY  
5.2.1  To be eligible  for leave  under  FMLA, an  associate must  have worked at MDB  for at 
least 12 months and worked a minimum of 1,250 hours in the previous 12 months.