defines this period as the 12 months immediately prior to the f irst day of the 
requested leave.  
7.2.2  An associate who is not eligible for FMLA  may apply  for Personal  Leave  for an 
absence  
related to a family member’s military service.  
 
7.3 COVERED SERVICE  MEMBER  
7.3.1  FMLA  provides  leave  for the associate to provide  care for a covered service  member 
with a serious health condition incurred while on active duty, defined as follows:  
• a member of the Armed Forces  who is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, 
or therapy, is otherwise in outpatient status, or is otherwise on the 
temporary disability retired list, for a serious injury or illness;  or 
• a veteran who is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy, 
for a serious injury or illness and who was a member of the Armed 
Forces  at any 
time during the  period of 5 years  preceding the date on which  the veteran 
undergoes  that medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy.  
7.3.2  Under  FMLA,  the covered service  member  must be the associate’s  spouse,  
son, daughter, parent, or next of kin. 
7.3.3  To care for a family  member  who is not covered under FMLA,  an associate may 
apply  for a Personal  Leave.  
 
7.4 LEAVE  AVAILABLE  
7.4.1  Eligible associates who qualify for leave are entitled to 26 weeks of FMLA leave in 
a single 12-month period.  This leave is combined  with all other  FMLA   leaves during that period, resulting in a maximum total leave entitlement of 
26 weeks.  
7.4.2  If an eligible  associate does  not take all his or her 26 workweeks  of leave  entitlement  
to 
care for a covered service member during this “single 12- month period,” the 
remaining part of his or her 26 workweeks of leave entitlement to care for the 
covered service member is forfeited.  
 
7.4.3  The 26 work week limit is applied on a per-covered- service member, per- injury 
basis such that an eligible associate may be entitled to take more than one period 
of 26 workweeks of leave if the leave is to care for different covered serviced 
members or to care for the same  service  member  with a subsequent  serious  injury  
or illness,  except  that no more than 26 workweeks of leave may be taken within any 
“single 12-month period.”  
 
8. Detailed Policy: Military Duty  Leave  
    
 
38 
 8.1 PURPOSE  
8.1.1  MDB  offers Military Duty Leave to comply with the Uniformed Services 
Employment & Reemployment  Rights  Acts  .  Associates  who are 
ordered to, or volunteer  for military training or active duty in the Armed Forces of 
the United States, the National Guard,  the United  States  Coast  Guard,  or the 
commissioned  corps  of the Public  Health Service may take a leave of absence for 
the length of service.  
8.2 ELIGIBILITY  
8.2.1  All associates  called  to, or volunteering for, covered military  duty are eligible  for 
leave under this  policy.  
 
8.3 COVERED MILITARY  DUTY  
8.3.1  Covered military duty  includes:  
• Service in the United States Uniformed Services, including the Armed 
Forces, Army National Guard, Air National Guard, full time National Guard 
duties and the commissioned corps of the Public Health  Service  
• Active  duty of reservists of the United  States  Military  Reserve  
• Military  Training  Duty,  Initial  Active  Duty for Training,  Active  Duty for 
Military Service and Emergency  Service  
 
8.4 LEAVE  AVAILABLE  
8.4.1  IN general,  under USERRA,  an associate is entitled for leave  for up to f ive 
years  of cumulative military service. However, the five- year time limit may be 
extended as required by applicable  law. 
8.4.2  Although military leave generally is unpaid, associates may elect to use their 
accrued vacation/PTO  days  or f loating holidays,  if any.  The substitution of such  paid 
benefits  does not extend the total amount of leave that may be taken pursuant to 
this policy.  
 
8.5 APPLYING FOR  LEAVE  
8.5.1  An associate who is called  to active  duty should  immediately  contact  MDB  
leave administrator.  
8.5.2  The associate must  provide documentation of the call to active  duty,  typically  by 
providing  
a copy of his/her military orders.  
 
8.6 REINSTATEMENT TO  EMPLOYMENT  
8.6.1  Associates  on military  leave  of absence are eligible  for re-employment  with MDB , 
subject to the following  conditions:  
• The associate has satisfactorily  completed military  service  ;  
• The length of military  leave  does  not exceed f ive years,  except  as 
required under  USERRA;  
• The associate is qualified  to perform  the duties  of the reemployed  
position.     
 
39 
 • If the individual is no longer qualified to perform those duties because 
of a disability that occurred, was aggravated, or became manifested 
during the period of military service, the associate will be placed in 
another existing position that they are capable of performing, and 
which is equivalent in seniority, status and pay as the former position 
or, under certain circumstances,  which  mostly  closely  approximates  the 
pre-service  position.  
• The application  for reemployment  is made within  the following  
time requirements:  
o Service  of less than 31 days:  The associate  must  report  to work  
on the first scheduled  workday  that occurs  after the day the 
associate returns home from military  service.  
o Service of more than 30 days and less than 181 days: The 
associate must apply  for reemployment  within  14 days  after  the 
end of service.  
o Service  in excess of 180 days:  The associate must  apply  
for reemployment within 90 days after the end of 
service.  
• For associates who are convalescing due to a disability incurred or 
aggravated during the period of service, the se time limits may be 
extended during the time necessary  for the associate to recover,  not to 
exceed 2 years.  
 
8.6.2  A member of the National Guard or a reservist of the United States Military Reserve 
who was called into active duty is eligible for reemployment if they applied for 
reemployment within 40 days after the end of service if the individual held a full-
time position  with MDB , or within  5 days  after the end of service  if the individual 
held a part - time position.  
8.6.3  For military  leaves  in excess  of 30 days,  the associate must  provide  documentation 
at the end f the period of service showing that they performed covered services 
during the military leave of absence, that they had satisfactorily completed covered 
services, and that his or her application for reemployment is  timely.  
8.6.4  An associate who returns from leave and meets the requirements outlined in this 
policy will be returned to the position the associate would have held had the person 
remained continuously employed or to an equivalent job, unless changed 
circumstances have made  reemployment  impossible or unreasona ble, or would 
impose  an undue hardship on MDB . 
 
9. Detailed Policy: MDB  Medical  Leave  
 
9.1 PURPOSE  
9.1.1  Following exhaustion of FMLA, or if the associate is not eligible for FMLA, 
MDB  offers eligible associates a leave of absence for their own illness or 
injury. This includes work -related illness and injury, as well as  pregnancy.  
 
9.2 ELIGIBILITY FOR  LEAVE  
9.2.1  To be eligible for leave under MDB ’s Medical Leave policy, an associate:     
 
40 
 • Must be a full- or part-time associate who has been  employed  with MDB  
for at least 6 consecutive months,  and 
• Must not otherwise be eligible for leave under FMLA .  
• In the event that an associate has been an associate of MDB  for less 
than 6 consecutive months,  leave  is available only as a reasonable  
accommodation under ADA, or on a case -by-case basis as approved 
by the associates’ department Director and Human Resources.  
 
9.3 QUALIFICATIONS FOR LEAVE  
9.3.1  This leave may be taken  because the associate is disabled due to an illness  or 
injury, including pregnancy.  
9.3.2  To support  a request  for leave,  the associate must  provide  medical  documentation f 
rom a treating health care provider no later than 15 calendar days after it is 
requested by MDB  or its leave  administrator.  
 
9.4 DEFINITION OF DISABILITY UNDER THIS POLICY  
9.4.1  Medical  Leave is intended for illnesses  and/or  injuries  that are incapacitating,  
according to the following  definition:  
• An associate will be considered incapacitated when, as a result of 
illness or injury, they are unable to perform the substantial and material 
functions necessary for his/her own position in the usual and 
customary way and the associate is not working  in his/her own position,  
or in a position  with similar duties or demands, at MDB  or at any other 
employer.  
• An associate will be considered incapacitated if , at the direction  of MDB , 
or a public health agency, s/he is prohibited from working because of 
infection prevention controls.  
• The associate must  be certified  by an acceptable  treating provider.  
Treating provider is a licensed health care provider who is personally 
caring for the associate, performing tasks that are within the limits of 
his or her medical license.  
• The provider  must  be licensed  to practice medicine  in the United  States,  
and prescribe  and administer drugs  or perform  surgery; or has a 
doctoral  degree in Psychology   whose  primary  practice  is 
treating patients;  or is a legally qualified medical practitioner according 
to the state laws and regulations.  This definition  also includes  a doctor  
of osteopathy,  or D.O.  
• MDB  will not recognize  the associate him/herself,  or a member  of 
the associate’s family as a treating provider.  
• MDB  Medical  Leave cannot  be used during  periods  of incapacity  
related to elective , non -reconstructive 
cosmetic  surgery.  
• An associate will be considered incapacitated if, at the direction of MDB , 
s/he is  prohibited from working  because of infection prevention controls.     
 
41 
  
9.5 LEAVE  AVAILABLE  
9.5.1  Following  exhaustion of FMLA,  or if the associate is not eligible  for FMLA,  the 
remainder of leave,  may be provided under  MDB ’s Medical  Leave or as an ADA  
accommodation.  
9.5.2  This period includes  leaves  taken for the associate’s  own illness,  including time 
taken under FMLA.  
9.5.3  In the event there is less than ninety  days between an associate’s return to work  
from one medical leave and the start date of another medical leave, the time spent on 
the 
 shall be entitled to one additional month of leave.  
9.5.4  Leave may be granted beyond  26 work  weeks, but only as an ADA accommodation.  
See below.  
 
9.6 LEAVE AVAILABLE AS A REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION UNDER ADA  
9.6.1  When  all other  sources  of leave  have been  exhausted,  or if an associate is not 
eligible  for leave under the MDB Medical Leave policy, and the associate continues 
to be unable to work due to an incapacitating illness or injury, leave may be 
available as a reasonable accommodation under  ADA.  
9.6.2  The amount  of leave  available,  the continuation of benefits  and reinstatement  
rights  will be determined on a case -by-case basis, through an interactive process.  
9.6.3  An associate who needs  leave as an accommodation  has some  key 
responsibilities  in enabling MDB to comply with ADA and similar laws. The 
associate must:  
• Demonstrate  his/her qualifications  to perform  the job ,  
• Provide  all applicable  supporting  documentation needed  by 
MDB to determine whether an accommodation,  and 
• Actively  participate in the interactive accommodation  process.  If an 
associate abandons  the interactive process,  or fails to provide 
information that has 
been requested, MDB  may decline the associate’s request for additional  
leave.  
 
9.7 JOB PROTECTION WHILE ON  LEAVE  
9.7.1  MDB is unable to guarantee job protection and reinstatement in all cases.  If the 
associate is on an approved medical leave, at the conclusion of the associate’s 
leave, MDB will reinstate the associate to the same or similar position, if available.  
 
10. Definitions  
 
For the purpose of leave of absence policies:  
 
 “Child”  means a biological, adopted or foster child, a step- child, a legal ward, or a 
child of a person standing in loco parentis, when the child is under 18 years old or age 
18 or older but incapable of self -care.  
    
 
42 
  “Covered Active Duty”  means, in the case of a member of a regular component of the 
Armed Forces, duty during the deployment of the member with the Armed Forces to a 
foreign country. In the case of a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces, duty 
during the deployment of the member with the Armed Forces to a foreign country under a 
call or order to active duty under a provision of law referred to in section 101 of Title 10, United States Code.
 
 
 “Covered Service Member”  is a) a member of the Armed Forces  a veteran who is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy, for
 
a serious injury or illness and who was a member of the Armed Forces  at any time during the period of 5 years preceding the date on which the veteran undergoes that medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy.
 
 
 “Health Care Provider”  means:  
 
1) A Doctor of Medicine  or Osteopathy  who is authorized to practiced medicine  or 
surgery  by the State in which the doctor practices;  or 
2) Others “capable of providing health care services”, which includes  only:  
3) Podiatrists, dentists, clinical psychologists, optometrists, and chiropractors   authorized to practice  in the State  and performing 
within  the scope  of their practice as defined under State law;  
4) Nurse practitioners, nurse -midwives, clinical social workers and physician assistants 
who are authorized to practice under State law and who are performing within the scope 
of their practice  as defined  under State  law and who are performing within  the scope  of 
their practice as defined under State law; 
5) Any health care provider  from whom  an employer  or the employer’s  group health  
plan’s benefits  manager  will accept  certification  of the existence  of a serious health 
condition to substantiate a claim for benefits;  and 
6) A health  care provider  listed  above  who practices  in a country  other than the United  
States, who is authorized to practice in accordance with the law of that country, and 
who is 
performing within the scope of his or her practice as defined under such law. The phrase  
“authorized to practice in the State” as used in this section means that the provider must 
be authorized to diagnose and treat physical or mental health conditions.  
 “Incapable of self-care”  means that the individual requires active assistance or supervision 
to provide daily self -care in several of the “activities of daily living”  or “instrumental 
activities of daily living” . Activities of daily living include adapti ve activities such as 
caring appropriately for one’s grooming and hygiene, bathing, dressing,  and eating. 
Instrumental activities of daily living include cooking, cleaning, shopping, taking public 
transportation, paying bills, maintaining a residence, using telephones and directories, using a post office, etc.
    
 
43 
  “Next of kin of a Covered Service member”  is defined as the nearest blood relative other 
than the covered service member’s spouse, parent, son, or daughter, in the following order 
of priority: blood relatives who have been granted legal custody of the covered service 
member by court decree or statutory provisions, brothers and sisters, grandparents, aunts and uncles, and f irst cousins, unless the covered service member has specifically designated in writing another blood relative as his or her nearest blood relative for purposes of military caregiver leave under the FMLA. When no such designation is made, and there are multiple family members shall be
 
considered the covered service member’s next of kin and may take FMLA leave to provide care to the covered service member, either consecutively or simultaneously. When such 
designation has been made, the designated individual shall be deemed to the covered service member’s only next of kin for FMLA purpos es.
 
 
 “Parent”  includes biological, foster, stepparent  and adoptive parents, legal guardian or other 
person who stood in loco parentis to the associate but not parents -in-law. 
 “Serious Health Condition”  means an illness, injury, impairment or physical or mental 
condition that requires either in- patient care or continuing treatment or supervision by a 
health care  
provider or as defined by State or Federal law. Continuing treatment by a health care provider 
means any one of the following:  
 Incapacity and treatment. A period of incapacity  of more than three  
consecutive, full calendar  days,  and any subsequent  treatment  or period of 
incapacity  relating to the same condition, that also involves:  
a. Treatment two or more times, within 30 days of the first day of 
incapacity, unless  extenuating circumstances exist,  by a health  care 
provider,  by a nurse under direct supervision of a health care provider, 
or by a provider of health care services  under 
orders of, or on referral by, a health care provider;  or 
b. Treatment by a health care provider on at least one occasion, which 
results in  a regiment  of continuing treatment  under the supervision of the 
health care provider.  
c. The requirement in paragraphs  and  of this definition for 
treatment by a health  care provider  means  an in-person visit to a health 
care provider.  The first in -person treatment visit must take place within 
seven days of the first day of incapacity.  
d. Whether  additional  treatment  visits  or a regimen of continuing treatment  
is necessary  within  the 30-day period shall be determined  by the health  
care provider.  
e. The term “extenuating circumstances” in paragraph  of this definition 
means  circumstances  beyond  the associate’s  control  that prevent  the 
follow - up visit from occurring as planned by the health care provider. 
Whether a given set of circumstances are extenuating depends on the 
facts.  
 Pregnancy  or prenatal  care. Any  period of incapacity  due to pregnancy,  
or for prenatal  care.     
 
44 
  Chronic  conditions.  Any period  of incapacity  or treatment  for such  incapacity  due 
to a chronic  serious  health  condition.  A chronic  serious  health condition  is one 
which:  
a. Requires  periodic  visits    for treatment  
by a health care provider,  or by a nurse  under  direct  supervision of a 
health care provider;  
b. Continues  over an extended period of time ;  and 
c. May cause episodic rather than a continuing period of incapacity  .  
 Permanent  or long-term due to a condition  for which  treatment  may not be 
effective. The associate or family member must be under the continuing 
supervision of, but need not be receiving  active  treatment  by, a health care 
provider.  Examples  include Alzheimer’s, a severe stroke, or the terminal stages 
of a disease.  
 Conditions requiring multiple treatments. Any period of absence to receive 
multiple treatments    by a health 
care provider  or by  a provider  of health care services  under  orders  of, or on 
referral  by, a health  care provider,  for: 
a. Restorative surgery after an accident or other injury;  or 
b. A condition that would likely result in a period of incapacity for more 
than three consecutive full calendar  days  in the absence of medical  
intervention or treatment, such as cancer , 
severe arthritis , kidney disease  .  
 Absences attributable to incapacity under paragraphs  or  of this definition 
qualify for FMLA leave even though the associate or the covered family 
member does  not receive treatment  from a health  care provider  during the 
absence,  and even if the absence does not last more than three consecutive full 
calendar days. For example, an associate with asthma  may be unable to report  
for work  due to the onset of an asthma attack or because the associate’s health 
care provider has advised the associate to stay home when the pollen count 
exceeds a certain level. An associate who is pregnant may be unable to work 
because of severe morning sickness.  
 In the case of a member of the Armed Forces , Serious Health Condition means an injury or 
illness that was incurred by the member  in line of duty on active  duty in the 
Armed  Forces   
and that may render the member medically  unfit to perform  the duties  of the 
member’s  office,  grade,  rank,  or rating.  
 In the case of a veteran who was a member of the Armed Forces  means a qualifying  injury or illness that was incurred by the member in line 
of duty on active  duty in the Armed  Forces   and that manifested itself before or after the member became a 
veteran.  
 
Safety and Compliance  
Employment Requirements  
 
As a condition of employment, the employer is allowed to take a specimen of the associate’s hair, 
urine, or blood and submit it for pre -employment, random, or reasonable suspicion drug test screen. All 
new hires will also be required to undergo a background check and TB testing if working in direct patient care. According to the Texas Department of State Health Services, “Part -time, temporary, 
contract, and full - time Health care workers  should be included in TB screening programs. All 
HCWs who have duties that involve face- to-face contact with patients with suspected or confirmed TB 
disease  should be included in a TB screening program”.
 
 
Job Descriptions  
 
MD Billing  attempts to maintain a job description for each position. Associate  job descriptions can be 
found in the documents section of your online Paycom portal.  Job descriptions prepared by MD Billing  
serve as an outline only. Due to the needs of business,  you may be required to perform job duties not 
within your written job description. Furthermore, the Company may have to revise, add to, or delete from your job duties according to company needs. On occasion, the Company may  need to revise job 
descriptions with or without advance notice to the associate.
 
 
If you have any questions regarding your job description, or the scope of your duties, please speak with your supervisor or Human Resources.
 
 
Mandatory Training  
 
All associates including the directors/managers are required to attend mandatory safety and 
compliance trainings. These trainings have been designed for the associates to have proper 
knowledge of the safety and compliance laws at the workplace. The human resources department will coordinate with all associates and supervisors on a regular basis in order to conduct these trainings. 
The trainings are web -based and provided to each associate. The associates are expected to pay 
close attention to these trainings and are expected to learn their rights and responsibilities at the 
workplace.
 
 
Mandatory Certification and Licensure Requirements  
 
It is the sole responsibility of the associate to keep their licensure and certification such as Nurse Practitioner/Register ed Nurse/Licensed Vocational Nurse/Certified Hyperbaric Technician/Medical 
Assistant and any others that apply updated, including updated Basic Life Support  and Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation  cards. If the associate is using their personal vehicle or a co- 
worker's vehicle during work hours, they are required to have a valid driver's license and adequate auto insurance.
 
 
Associates found in violation of the aforementioned certification and licensure requirements  will face disciplinary action up to and including 
termination from employment.  
 
     
 
46 
 Safety Policy Statement  
 
It is the policy of this Company to provide our associates with a safe workplace, safety equipment, and 
the proper materials to complete assignments safely. It is also the policy of this Company to insist that 
each associate perform their work assignment safely. All associates are expected to use safe work 
methods and practices at all times. It is the policy of this Company to enforce safety standards established by the Occupational Safety and Health Act , the host facility and any other 
governing aut hority.
 
 
Associates have the right to expect to be provided with a safe workplace, and associates have the right 
to be provided with proper and safe equipment. Maintaining a safe workplace, associate use of proper 
and safe equipment, and associate adherence to safe work practices and procedures will eliminate or control hazards to life and health. It is the responsibility of associates to observe all Safety Policies and Procedures established by this Company. It is also the responsibility of an associate to report any 
hazardous condition or unsafe conduct to their supervisor.
 
 
This Company will:  
 
• Assign  a competent  person  as Safety  Director /Officer  from within  the staff  
• Conduct workplace safety training for associates  
 
Summary  
 
This Company will do all that is reasonably possible to protect our associates from injury, prevent 
property damage, and prevent harm to our clients and the public.  
 
General Safety Rules  
 
• In case of emergency, please call 911 immediately.  
• Immediately report all unsafe acts or conditions to your supervisor.  
• Immediately report all accidents, incidents, or injuries to your  supervisor.  
• Cooperate fully with any investigator of an accident or  incident.  
• Operate only the equipment  assigned to you and only that equipment  for which  you have been 
trained to operate.  
• Never service or repair any moving or running equipment.  
• Before  dismounting,  always  let the equipment  come  to a complete  stop,  engage all safety  
devices such as emergency brake, gear shift lock, boom lock,  etc. 
• Always use the equipment's seat  belts.  
• Never disable or alter equipment safety  devices.  
• Immediately  report  unsafe  tools,  frayed  electrical  cords,  or unguarded equipment  to your 
supervisor.  
• Always wear the personal protective equipment  provided.  
• Horseplay and fighting are prohibited.  
• Abuse of prescription or non- prescription drugs  is prohibited.  
• Use or possession  of illegal drugs is prohibited.  
• Sale or purchase of illegal drugs or intoxicants  is prohibited.  
• Arrival  at the workplace while  under  the influence of drugs  or intoxicants  is prohibited.  
 
All associates have a safety responsibility to themselves and to their fellow workers. The above- listed  
safety rules will be strictly enforced. Violations of these rules can result in disciplinary action up to and 
including termination of employment.  
 
Emergency Procedures  
 
Reporting Procedures – In case of incidents requiring emergency medical attention to associates or 
persons outside the company  CALL 911 . A personal    
 
47 
 injury report must be completed and signe d by a supervisor before the end of the shift for any injury 
occurring on these premises. Should the associate not be able to complete the personal injury report, 
the associate’s supervisor should complete the report and note the associate was not availabl e for 
signature.  
 
Protection of Property – In case of incidents resulting in major fires, explosions or casualty losses, with 
or without injury, CALL 911 . 
 
Notify supervisor and / or management immediately in any fire or medical emergency situation.  
 Medi cal Emergency for Injured Associates :
 
• Notify the supervisor  immediately.  
• Provide first aid only if trained and certified to do  so 
 
If not certified  in f irst aid, do not attempt  to move an injured person  
 
 
In Case of Injury  
Injuries which are life threatening, such as stopped breathing, spurting blood, unconsciousness, broken bones, or other severe trauma require immediate assistance. Call 911 immediately and stay on the line 
to give the operator the necessary informat ion. Unless you have been trained and certified in First Aid 
or CPR, any actions you take may be more harmful than helpful to the victim. Do not move the victim 
unless there are other events threatening their life and yours, such as fire or possible explos ion.
 
 
First Aid Kits  
First Aid Kits are located within the clinic. Supplies in these kits are to be used only for self -treatment 
of minor cuts, minor burns and abrasions unless you are trained and certified in first aid.  
 
Fire Emergency Procedures  
• An associate spotting a f ire should:  
• Activate the f ire alarm and alert other personnel in the area.  
• Call 911. 
• Leave the area quickly,  closing doors  behind you to help contain the f ire and smoke.  
• Go to the nearest exit that is not blocked by f ire. 
• Crawl low, near the floor under the smoke. Test doors before you open them by feeling the 
doorknob  and the space  between the door  and f rame  as high as you can reach with the back  of 
your hand.  
• Follow  directions  f rom f ire and security personnel.  
• Wait in a secure area away  f rom the f ire location  until directed  otherwise by the supervisor,  f ire 
department, or police department  personnel.  
 
Fire Prevention and Controls  
• Work areas shall be kept clean and orderly at all times. Good housekeeping prevents creation 
of f ire hazards and injuries caused by trip hazards, protruding nails, broken glass, and other 
loose debris.  
• Use refuse  can for trash  and NEVER  for disposal  of smoking materials.  
• Do not allow scrap materials or rubbish to accumulate in the work  area.  
• Floors  shall  be kept f ree of dangerous  projections  or obstructions  and shall be maintained 
reasonably f ree of oil, grease, water or debris.  
• Where  operations  produce slippery  conditions,  mats  shall be used to reduce the hazard of 
slipping.  
• Materials and supplies shall be stored in an orderly  manner.  
• Keep aisles and walkways clear and unobstructed.  
• Flammable liquids  and solvents  shall be kept in a proper  container and securely  covered 
except when in actual  use. 
• Containers shall be labeled with the name of the product, and the hazard classification.     
 
48 
 • Do not put anything into an unlabeled container.  
• Smoking  is allowed only in designated areas  outside  any company  building.  In keeping  with the 
company’s  intent  to provide a healthful  work  environment,  smoking is prohibited  throughout  the 
workplace.  
• Fire extinguishers shall  be maintained  in a fully charged  and operable condition  and kept in the 
designated places at all times when not being  used.  
 
 
Hazardous Chemicals and Your Right to Know  
Associates must comply with all Occupational Safety and Health Act’s standards and regulations 
established by the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 and regulations which have been added to this Act in recent years by both States and Federal governments. If you believe that you are being exposed to a known or suspected hazard when working with toxic chemicals or substances, you 
have a right to know about such hazards through Material Safety Data Sheets . Ask your 
supervisor to review the MSDS with you.
 
 
Safety Enforcement  
 
The following disciplinary actions will be taken whenever an associate violates a safety rule, a safety policy, or safety procedure:
 
 
FIRST OFFENSE: A verbal warning will be issued to the associate.  
 
SECOND OFFENSE: A subsequent offense of a safety violation will result in a written warning  
 
Disciplinary actions, which may be taken, include but are not limited to:  
 
Suspension without pay for up to three  days;  or 
Termination  
 
THIRD OFFENSE: A third violation of a safety rule, a safety policy, or procedure may result in 
immediate termination.  
 
The company may utilize the aforementioned procedure to follow the disciplinary process, but it does 
not have to follow the sequence described above.  
 
The associate’s supervisor will document all offenses. Documentation of an associate's violation of a 
safety rule, policy, or procedure will be maintained in the associate's personnel f ile. Any person who 
violates a safety rule, policy, or procedure that results in personal injury or subjects others to physical harm may be immediately terminated.
 
 
On-Site Safety Visits  
Hazard Identification Surveys will be conducted randomly by:  
 
• The Safety  Director/Officer  f rom within  the staff.  
• A Member of Management  
 
Designated persons conducting Hazard Identification Surveys have the responsibility and authority to take immediate corrective action. Designated persons have the authority to stop all operations until corrective action has been com pleted.
 
 
Hazard Identification Survey Objectives:  
• Control or eliminate workplace hazards  
• Collect information as source data to complete a Hazard Recognition  Analysis  
• Acknowledge those who observe safe work  practices  
• Identify  those who do not observe safe work  practices  and suggest  corrective  action     
 
49 
 • Identify safety  violations  
• Correct unsafe conduct or unsafe conditions  
• Individuals  conducting  on-site hazard recognition  surveys  will complete  a written  report  
detailing their f indings.  
• The report will be maintained on file in the Company’s HR office  
 
 
Associate Injury and Claims Reporting  
 
Listed below  are the steps to follow when filing an injury claim and  returning  to work after 
rehabilitation f rom an injury:  
 
Associate Responsibilities  
 
• Report on the job injuries immediately to your  supervisor  
• Complete injury  report  
• Notify your supervisor of the kind of treatment you are to receive for your injury and where the 
treatment  will be performed,  you also should  notify your supervisor  when  you anticipate 
returning to work  
• You should  notify  the human resources  department  of the course of treatment  you are required  
to undergo  
• You should expect  a call f rom your human resources representative and a workers  
comp ensation representative once a week, during your rehabilitation period, to assist you in 
your efforts to return to work and receive rehabilitation at the proper facility by approved 
medical  providers  
• When  you have completed  your rehabilitation  and your doctor has released you to return  to 
work, you must  report  no later than the next work day to your supervisor  for your work  
assignment. You must bring a written release f rom your treating physician stating that you are 
released to return and the restrictions, if any. You will not be allowed to return to work without a 
written  release.  
 
Supervisor Responsibilities  
• Conduct incident and accident investigations  
• Report  f indings,  conclusions,  and recommendations  for corrective  action or disciplinary  action 
to management  
• Document the investigations  
• Forward a copy of incident or accident report to the human resource department  
 
Return to Work Policy  
 
MD Billing  is committed to providing a safe workplace for our associates. Preventing work related 
injuries or illness is our primary goal. We are committed to utilizing our resources to provide a safe 
work environment for everyone. We are also committed to providing prompt, quality medical care and 
returning injured workers to productive employment as soon as possible. Our return- to-work  program 
provides opportunities for an associate, who is injured on the job, to return to work at full duty. If the 
associate is not  physically capable of returning to full duty, we will make every effort to provide a 
modified transitional work position until the associate is able to resume normal duties. All our modified 
work is temporary and intended to facilitate a return to regular work duties when medically feasible. 
These positions may be  
offered at any location, any department, or shift that MD Billing  can accommodate.  
 
An associate who is injured at work must immediately report the incident to their supervisor or call the 
human resources department.  
 
    
 
50 
 Supervisors are required to:  
 
• Complete an incident/accident/injury investigation report and email it to HR immediately.  
• The supervisor should talk to the injured worker on the day of injury and weekly, until  the 
associate returns to work, to provide assistance.  
• Associates  who return  to service  after recovering f rom a workplace injury  may be required  to 
submit  to drug testing.  At that point,  if their drug test result  is positive,  they may be terminated 
immediately.  
• Following  the associate’s  return to work, the supervisor  should periodically  monitor  the 
• associate’s progress to make sure restrictions are being followed carefully. The supervisor shall 
make every effort to provide an appropriate alternative productive work assignment that meets the physical and medical restrictions placed on the injured worker.
 
 
 
Associate Responsibilities:  
 
• Know  the employer’s  safety  and return  to work  policies  and procedures,  which  are outlined in 
your associate handbook.  
• Follow all safety procedures, as reviewed by your supervisor.  
• Report any injury immediately to your supervisor.  
• If medical  attention is necessary,  inform  the treating  doctor that alternative work  may be 
available to accommodate  your physical  abilities.  
• If your doctor restricts you f rom working,  notify  your supervisor  immediately.  
• When your doctor releases you to return to work, report to work on the next  regular shift.  
• If your doctor  orders  medical  restrictions, discuss  return  to work  opportunities  with your 
supervisor.  
• Follow your doctor’s orders and restrictions at home and at work.  
 
Medical Treatment of Associates  
  
Any care provided by an associate to another associate must fall within the parameters of acceptable activities listed in an associate’s contract or employment agreement. Care provided should be in the same manner as that provided to any other person or patient seeking care, similar care such as providing consent to treat and bill for services rendered and documentation must be completed in the medical record of in order for the medical care to be covered under MD Billing ’ liability carrier. Any medical treatment of one 
associate by another associate outside of these circumstances must be approved by a member of the 
executive team and made part of the associate’s personnel record. Treatment would include not only direct 
care or recommendations, it encompasses prescriptions or referrals to another provider as well.  
 
Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act HIPAA  
 
Under HIPAA, patients have significant rights to understand and control how their health information is used, including:  
 
• A clear, written explanation of how the covered entity may use and disclose their health care 
information.  
• Ability to see and get copies of their records, and request amendment.  
• MD Billing  entities and partners are required to obtain patient authorization for non- routine 
disclosures and non- health care purposes. Patients have the right to request restriction on the use 
and disclosure of their information.  
• People will have the right to file a formal complaint with MD Billing  or with Department of Health and 
Huma n Services about violations of the provisions of this rule or the policies and procedures of the 
covered entity.  
 
With few exceptions, an individual’s health information may only be used for health care purposes.     
 
51