• Managers/Directors should ensure only those Associates required/scheduled to work a holiday are on duty  and receiving the holiday differential.  
• Associates should clock in and out the same as a normal shift.  
• Holiday differential will be paid for time worked from 12 a.m. to 11:59 p.m. on the actual holiday. 
The differential is automatically calculated through the timekeeping system.  
 
Work Schedules  
 
All work schedules will be determined by your immediate supervisor.  
 
Time Keeping  
 
Federal and state laws require us to keep accurate records of hours worked by non- exempt  
associates. You should clock in no more than five minutes ahead of time and clock out no later than 
five minutes after your quitting time. Every non- exempt associate of the Company is required to enter 
their hours worked accurately, including all lunch periods and any rest periods of more than 20 minutes.  
 
Associates are required to notify the company of any pay discrepancies, unrecorded or mis-recorded 
work hours, or any involuntary missed meal or break periods.  
 
Do not complete the time sheet of any other associate or request that they do so for you. Please be sure to indicate your days off. Any changes to your timecard must be approved of by your supervisor.
 
Timecard adjustments are to be initiated in the time keeping system within 24 hours of the discrepancy.     
 
15 
  
Falsification of time records or recording time for another associate may result in discipline, up to and 
including termination of employment.  
 
ALL hourly associates are required to clock in and out for the day and for lunch on a daily basis. It is the associate’s responsibility to check their punches daily to determine if there are any missed punches 
or discrepancies.
 
 
If an associate has a missed punch or discrepancy, they must submit a time adjustment to their 
supervisor within 24 hours of when the missed punch or discrepancy occurred. Supervisors must approve time adjustments. All time adjustments must be approved within 24 hours of receiving the request.
 
 
If for any reason the associate’s supervisor is absent, the associate must inform the Human Resourc es 
Department within 24 hours of when the missed punch or discrepancy occurred.  
 
Extenuating circumstances where an associate or supervisor is unable to meet the requirements of the policy will be managed on a case- by-case basis.  
 All associates, regardles s of position, are required to adhere to these guidelines. Failure to follow these 
guidelines will result in disciplinary action up to and including termination.
 
 
Rest and Meal Periods 
 
The Company strives to provide a safe and healthy work environment and complies with all federal and 
state regulations regarding rest and meal periods. Please check with your supervisor regarding 
procedures and schedules for rest and meal breaks. The Company requests that associates accurately 
observe and record meal and rest periods. If you know in advance that you may not be able to take your scheduled break or meal period, please let your supervisor know as soon as possible. If you did not know in advance but were unable to take a meal or rest break, please notify your supervisor as soon as possible.
 
 
Off The Clock Work  
 
Under the Fair Labor Standards Act, non- exempt associates must be paid for all hours worked.  
 
Performing any work -related tasks must only take place during assigned work periods while hours 
worked are being recorded. MD Billing  does not allow work to be performed outside of assigned work 
periods without pay to any non- exempt team members. Supervisor approval is required for all work 
outside of normal and/or beyond the 40- hour work week. Violation of this policy will result in disciplinary 
action up to and including termination of employment.  
 
Overtime Authorization for Non- exempt Associates  
 
If you are a non- exempt associate, you may qualify for overtime pay. All overtime must be approved in 
advance, in writing, by your supervisor.  
 
At certain times, the Company may require you to work overtime. We will attempt to give as much notice as possible in this instance. However, advance notice may not always be possible. Failure to work overtime when requested or working unauthorized overtime may result in discipline, up to and including termination of employment .
 
 
Overtime pay of one and one- half times an associate’s regular rate of pay or average pay rate  is paid for any hours worked in excess of 40 hours in a workweek. Holidays, Paid Time Off and other non- working leave days do not count as 
time worked for computing overtime.     
 
16 
  
Remote Work Policy  
 
Employees are permitted to work remotely occasionally or regularly, depending on a number of  factors and 
the arrangements they've made with their manager. Remote work is a privilege that may be revoked at any 
time. The Company may request that an employee be present in the office at any time  or deny a request to work remotely based on business needs, employee performance, or 
viability of doing the remotely. To be eligible, an employee must have access to reliable internet and a 
space that is free from excessive noise or distraction.  
 Submitting Requests  
Employees who do not have a remote work agreement in place must submit a remote work request in 
writing to their supervisor and notify appropriate team members. Requests for recurring or extended remote 
work arrangements will be considered on a case- by-case basis, or in the case of a public health emergency.  
 
Costs  
The Company will supply the employee with appropriate office supplies and reimburse the employee for all other reasonable business -related expenses. Employees must get pre- approval for expenses associated 
with working from home. Any equipment supplied by the Company is to be used for business purposes only, 
unless otherwise specified. Employees must take appropriate action to protect these items from damage or theft.  
 The Company is not responsible for costs associated with initial setup of the employee's home office such as remodeling, furniture or lighting, or for repairs or modifications to the home office space.  
 
Security  
As with employees working in the office, those who work remotely will be expected to ensure the protection 
of proprietary Company and patient information through use of locking doors, desks, file cabinets, and media storage, regular password maintenance, and any other steps appropriate for the job and the environment. Unless you live alone, computers should be locked when you walk away and other household members should not be allowed access to or use of Company property.  
 
Expectations  
When working remotely employees must: 
• Work their full, typical schedule  
• Attend all meetings in a virtual capacity  
• Achieve the same level of production as in the office  
• Maintain equivalent availability for colleague and client/patient communication, supervisor 
questions, etc.  
• Be available online and by phone for the duration of their usual workday, minus breaks periods  
• Respond promptly to communication via messaging app, email, and phone  
• Take all required break periods, as if they were in the office  
• Communicate consistently regarding their workload and status  
• Follow all company procedures and policies  
• Refrain from using alcohol or illegal drugs  
 
 
         
 
17 
 Travel Time Pay  
 
Some non- exempt positions within MD Billing  require travel. MD Billing  pays non- exempt associates for 
travel time in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act . For purposes of this policy, the 
regular workday is 8:00 – 5:00 .  
 
Home to Work Travel  
An associate who travels from home before the regular workday and returns to his or her home at the end of the workday is engaged in ordinary home to work travel, which is not work time.
 
 
Home to Work on a Special One Day Assignment in Another City  
An associate who regularly works at a fixed location in one city is given a special one- day assignment 
in another city and returns home the same day. The time spent in traveling to and returning from the other city is work time, except that the employer may deduct/not count that time the associate would normally spend commuting to the regular work site.
 
 
Travel That Is All in a Day’s Work  
Time spent by an associate in travel as part of their principal activity, such as travel from job site to job site during the workday, is work time and must be counted as hours worked.
 
 
Travel Away from Home Community  
Travel that keeps an associate away from home overnight is travel away from home. Travel away from home is clearly work time when it cuts across the associate’s workday. The time is not only hours worked on regular working days during normal working hours but also during corresponding hours on 
nonworking days. MD Billing  will not consider as work time that time spent in travel away from home 
outside of regular working hours as a passenger on an airplane, train, boat, bus, or automobile.
 
 
Calculating and Reporting Travel Time  
Associates are responsible for accurately tracking, calculating, and reporting travel time. Travel time should be calculated by rounding up to the nearest quarter hour.
 
 
Travel Expenses  
 
Advances  
The Company does not generally provide cash travel advances. Normally, associates are expected to 
use personal credit cards and/or their own cash and submit their approved expenses.  
 
Travel Expenses  
The Company pays the actual amounts incurred for appropriate expenses when associates are on travel assignments. Examples of typical expenses include the following:
 
 
• Airline  tickets  
• Lodging  
• Car rental, bus, taxi, parking  
• Telephone and fax 
• Laundry and dry cleaning   
• Business supplies and services  
• Associated gratuities  
• Other expenses necessary to achieve the business  purposes  
 Per Diems  
The Company will pay a daily per diem rate for overnight travel which may be prorated by time of travel and meals provided by the company such as working lunches or business dinners.  
     
 
18 
 Air Travel  
Associates are to use economy or tourist class airfares when traveling on Company business. In 
addition, private, noncommercial aircraft or chartered aircraft is not to be used, and no more than two Company  officers should travel together on the same flight.
 
 
Airfares are to be charged to personal credit cards and subsequently turned in for reimbursement.  
 
Hotels  
Neither in- room movies nor refreshment bars are approved Company expenses.  
 
Insurance  
The Company does not pay for personal travel insurance for associates.  
 
Rental Cars  
Associates are to use rental firms having existing relationships with the Company and, where feasible, have negotiated discounts rates. Reasonable transportation available is to be used.  Vehicle class 
should accommodate only the business needs for travel, any reservation above the Standard class 
vehicle requires administrative approval. 
 
 
Personal Vehicles  
All associates  using  their own vehicle  for business  purposes  must  maintain  insurance coverage as 
required by law and may not have more than 2 points on their driving record. Travel between the 
associate’s home and primary office is not considered to be business travel. Associates are not 
authorized to use personal vehicles for business travel without authorization. Associates will be 
reimbursed for vehicle use at the current company rate. An executive officer must authorize any 
deviation from this policy.  
  
Travel to a temporary location within a metro area  will  not be subject to 
mileage reimbursement except in cases where the associate has reported to one location and has 
been requested to report to a separate location in the same day. The route chosen for reimbursement 
should be the shortest route available. If a company vehicle is available for such tr avel, associates 
should use a company vehicle. If a company vehicle is available and the associate chooses not to use it, no mileage reimbursement will be offered for that trip.
 
 
Associate Reporting  
Associates are to report their expenses  for approval through the appropriate reporting tools  and must 
include a description of the expense, its business purpose, date, place, and the participants.  
 
Business Expenses  
 
Approved business expenses are the reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by associates to 
achieve legitimate business purposes that are not covered by normal Company procurement processes.
 
 
All business expenses must be approved by your supervisor prior to occurrence.  
 
Business Meetings   
The Company pays for expenses necessary to achieve a valid business purpose when meetings are 
held with customers, vendors, or other Company associates. The most senior Company associate present is to pay and report all expenses.
 
 
The Company will make every effort to have a master account set up for Company -wide and large 
group events. However, if you are at a small meeting or staying by yourself at a hotel, pay individually and submit for reimbursement accordingly.
 
    
 
19 
 Entertainment  
The Company pays for entertainment expenses only when they clearly benefit the Company and 
include customers and are promotional in nature. The most senior Company associate present is to pay and report all expenses.
 
 
Technical and Training Seminars  
In some instances, the Company pays for expenses associated with attendance at classes and seminars that enhance job - related skills. Prior approval must be obtained by the associate’s 
manager/supervisors and appropriate management.
 
 
Other Expenses  
The Company will pay for postage and telephone expenses that are for business purposes.  
 
Associate Reporting  
Associates are to report their approved expenses and must include a description of the expense, its business purpose, date, place, and the participants.
 
 
Use of Company Credit Cards  
 
The Company will issue company credit cards to certain associates for use in their jobs; this policy sets out the acceptable and unacceptable uses of such credit cards.
 
 
Use of company -issued credit cards is a privilege, which the Company may withdraw in the event of 
serious or repeated abuse. Any credit card the Company issues to an associate must be used for  
business purposes only, in conjunction with the associate’s job duties. Associates with such credit cards shall not use them for any non- business, non- essential purpose, i.e., for any personal purchase 
or any other transaction that is not authorized or needed to carry out their duties. Associates must pay for personal purchases  with their own funds or personal credit cards.
 
 
The Company will not regard expenses for one's own business -related use, such as lodging and meals 
while on company -approved business trips, as personal purchases, as long as such expenses are 
consistent with the Company's travel and expense reimbursement policy.  
 
If any associate uses a company credit card for personal purchases in violation of this policy, the cost 
of such purchase will be considered an advance of future wages payable to that associate and will 
be recovered in full from the associate’s next paycheck; any balance remaining will be deducted in full from subsequent paychecks until the wage advance is fully repaid. Such deductions may not take the  
associates  pay below minimum wage for the pay period in question. If an associate uses a company 
credit card for any other type of unauthorized transaction in violation of this policy, i.e., incurs financial 
liability on the Company's part that is not within the scope of the associate’s duties or the associate’s 
authorization to make business -related purchases, the cost of such purchase or transaction will be 
the financial responsibility of that associate, and the associate will be expected to reimburse the 
Company vi a deductions from pay until the unauthorized amount is fully repaid. Such deductions will 
be in the amount of the unauthorized purchase, but if a deduction for such amount would take the associate below minimum wage for the work week in question, the deductions will be in two or more 
equal increments that will not take the associate's pay below minimum wage for any work week 
involved.
 
 
In addition to financial responsibility and liability for wage deductions, any purchases an associate makes with a company credit card in violation of this policy will result in disciplinary action, up to and possibly including termination of employment, depending upon the severity and repeat nature of the 
offense.
 
 
Terms of use are as follows:  
    
 
20 
 1. Authorization – The owner  must  provide  written  authorization  prior  to the use of a company  credit 
card 
 
2. Associate  Agreement  – The associate must sign an agreement  acknowledging  that they have 
read and understood the policies and procedures governing the use of a company  credit.  
a. No personal or private expenditure shall be charged to a company  account  
b. No unapproved operating expense  
shall be charged to the credit  card.  
c. Each expense charged must be accompanied by the actual itemized receipt and brief 
explanation.    Each expense should 
have the same type of documentation that you would include on a request for 
reimbursement.  
d. An expense exceeding $50.00 should be pre-approved.  
e. Documentation of each expense is required as soon as possible, and no later than 7 
days  f rom the date of purchase.  The cardholder  is responsible for ensuring  ALL receipts 
are turned in by the end of each month. Expenses and receipts should be uploaded  using 
the Paycom  application.  
f. No cash advances will be permitted on a company credit  card.  
g. Any credit card issued to an associate will have a pre -set monthly  limit.  
 
3. Card Payments – Payments, late fees and interest related to unauthorized or undocumented 
charges shall be the responsibility of the associate.  
 
Violations of the MD Billing  credit card policy will result in disciplinary action, including termination of 
employment.  
 
Pay Period  
 
The standard pay period is semi -monthly for all associates. Pay dates are the 6th and the 21st of the 
month. Should any pay period fall on a holiday, you will be paid on the preceding workday. If a pay 
date falls on a Saturday or Sunday, paychecks will be issued on Friday prior to payday.  
 
All additional compensations are paid in accordance with the signed agreement in relation to that 
compensation.  
 
Direct Deposit  
 
We encourage all associates to enroll in direct deposit. If you would like to take advantage of direct deposit, associates may enter direct deposit information in the online payroll system. Typically, the 
bank will begin the direct deposit of your payroll immediately after you submit your completed information. If you have selected the direct deposit payroll service, a written explanation of your deductions can be printed from the online payroll system.
 
 
If you wish to decline enrollment in direct deposit, your paychecks will be mailed via the United States 
Postal Service to the address currently on file in the online payroll system.  
 
Lost or Stolen Paychecks  
 
If a check is lost or stolen a check replacement authorization form must be completed and received in the MD Billing  corporate office in order for a replacement check to be issued. A $ 35.00 Stop Payment 
fee and/or special handling charge may be applied dependent upon circumstances. The waiting period for a check lost in th e mail is  ten days from the check date and normal delivery by regular 1st 
class mail.  
 
 
    
 
21 
 Paycheck Deductions 
 
MD Billing  is required by federal, state, and certain local laws to withhold certain deductions from your 
paycheck. This includes income and unemployment taxes, and FICA contributions  as well as any other deductions required under law or by court order for wage garnishments. 
The amount of your tax deductions will depend on your earnings and the number of exemptions you list 
on your federal Form W- 4 and applicable state withholding form. You may also authorize voluntary 
deductions from your paycheck, including contributions for insurance premiums, retirement plans, spending accounts, or other services. Your deductions will be reflected in your wage statement. You may view these deductions at any time in the company’s online payroll system.
 
 
MD Billing  is authorized to deduct, within the limits of payroll laws, any amounts owed to the company 
upon termination of employment.  
 
Contact Human Resources for any questions about your paycheck.  
 
Payroll Advances and Loans  
 
MD Billing  will not advance wages or loan money to its associates. All requests for payroll advances or 
loans from the Company will be rejected.  
 
Attendance and Leave  
 
Attendance Policy  
 
The purpose of this policy is to set forth MD Billing ' policy and procedures for handling associate 
absences and tardiness to promote the efficient operation of the company and minimize unscheduled 
absences.  
 
Punctual and regular attendance is an essential responsibility of each associate at MD Billing . 
Associates are expected to report to work as scheduled, on time and prepared to start working. 
Associates also are expected to remain at work for their entire work schedule. Late arrival, early departure or other absences from scheduled hours are disruptive and must be avoided.
 
This po licy does not apply to absences covered by the Family and Medical Leave Act  or leave 
provided as a reasonable accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act . These exceptions are described in separate policies.
 
 
Absence  
"Absence" is defined as the failure of an associate to report for work when they are scheduled to work. The two types of absences are defined below:
 
 
Excused absence occurs when all the following conditions are met:  
 
• The associate provides  to his or her supervisor  sufficient  notice at least  48 hours in  advance of 
the absence.  
• The absence request is approved in advance by the associate's  supervisor.  
• The associate has sufficient accrued paid time off  to cover the absence.  
 
Unexcused absence occurs when any of the above conditions are not met; all above conditions must 
be satisfied in order for the absence to be considered excused.  
 
• An associate who must call in the day of their shift must do so a minimum of two hours prior to 
the start of  their shift.  With exception of extenuating circumstances, do not contact  your 
supervisor between the hours  of ten o’clock pm and f ive o’clock  am. Associates  should call in 
to their supervisor  and leave a message for the Human Resources  department  as a backup.     
 
22 
 An unexcused  absence counts  as one occurrence for the purposes  of discipline  under this 
policy.  
• Associates with two or more consecutive days of unexcused absences because of illness or 
injury must give MD Billing  proof of physician's care and a fitness for duty release prior to 
returning to work.  
• Associates must take earned PTO for every absence unless otherwise allowed by company 
policy .  
 
Tardiness and Early Departures  
Associates are expected to report to work and return from scheduled breaks on time. If associates cannot report to work as scheduled, they must notify their supervisor no later than their regular starting 
time. This notification does not excuse the tardiness but simply notifies the supervisor that a schedule 
change may be necessary.
 
 
Associates who must leave work before the end of their scheduled shift must notify a supervisor 
immediately.  
 
Tardiness and early departures are each one- half an occurrence for the purpose of discipline under 
this policy.  
 
Disciplinary Action  
Excessive absenteeism is defined as two or more occurrences of unexcused absence in a 30 -day 
period or three or more occurrences in a 90- day period and will result in disciplinary action. Eight 
occurrences of unexcused absence in a 12- month period are considered grounds for termination.  
 
Occurrence  
Unscheduled absences that consist of 1- 3 consecutive calendar days missed or absent from work for 
the same illness/reason. For unscheduled absences in excess of 3 days the associate should consider 
requesting leave under a qualifying company leave policy .  
 
In the event an associate is forced to leave their scheduled shift early due to illness/emergency and then calls in for their shift in the following consecutive days, only one occurrence will be counted.  
 Associates who return to work after and unscheduled occurrence but then find that they are unable to perform their job duties due to the same illness/emergency may extend their unscheduled absence 
under the same occurrence.
 
 
Job Abandonment  
Any associate who fails to report to work for a period of one day or more without notifying his or her 
supervisor will be considered to have abandoned the job and voluntarily terminated the employment 
relationship. Associates who abandon their job will not be eligible for re- hire. 
 
Paid Time Off   
 
Purpose of Paid Time Off  
The purpose  of Paid Time  Off   is to provide associates  with  flexible  paid time off from work  
that can be used for such needs as vacation, holidays, personal or family illness, doctor 
appointments, school, volunteerism,  and other activities  of the associate's  choice.  The company's  
goal is to reduce unscheduled absences and the need for supervisory  oversight.  
 
Guidelines for PTO Use  
Associates are responsible for managing their PTO account. It is important to reserve time for holidays, vacations, doctors appointments, personal business, short -term illnesses and unexpected 
absences. Associates may not us e PTO hours before they are accrued and reflected in the payroll 
system.     
 
23 
  
Each full -time associate will accrue PTO semi -monthly in hourly increments based on their length of 
service as defined below. PTO is added to the associate's PTO bank when the semi -monthly 
paycheck is issued. PTO taken will be subtracted from the associate's accrued time bank in one-
hour increments.Only full -time associates are eligible for PTO accrual.  
 
Eligibility to accrue PTO is contingent on the associate either working or utilizing accrued PTO for 
the entire semi -monthly pay period. PTO accruals are adjusted down proportionally for pay 
periods during which unpaid leave, including disciplinary leave, short - or long- term disability leave 
or workers' compensation leave are taken.  
 
Associates may use time from their PTO bank in hourly increments. Time that is not covered by the 
PTO policy, and for which separate guidelines and policies exist, include bereavement time off, 
required jury duty, and military service leave.  
 
All PTO requests should be submitted throu gh Paycom at least twenty -one days in advance of the 
requested time off except when being requested for legitimate, unexpected illness or emergencies.  
In those  insta nces, the Asso ciate must  notify  his/her manager at least  two {2) hours  before the start 
of the Associ ate's  shift,or  accordi ng to departmental procedures,  except  in emergency  circumstances 
when such  contact  is not feas ible. In those  instances , notification shou ld take place  as soon as 
possible.   In all instances, PTO must 
be approved by the associate's supervisor in advance. The Company appreciates as much notice as 
possible when you know you expect to miss work for a scheduled absence.  
 
Managers  should review  and approve/deny PTO  requests  within  the Paycom system  
on a daily  basis. Notification of the approval/deni al will be sent to the Associate email or 
Paycom push notification system. When  necessary,  if patient  safety  and care or critical  
business  operations will  be impac ted by the Associate's absence,  MD Billing  reserves  the right 
to cancel  approved PTO.  
 
Paid Time Off  Exceptions  
 
 
• Associates  who miss  two or more consecutive unscheduled days  may be required  to present  a 
doctor's release to the Human Resources department that permits them to return to work.  
 
• Newly -hired Associates will begin accruing PTO on their first day of employment, but they will 
not be able to use their PTO during the introductory period.   
 
• PTO taken in excess  of the PTO accrued can result  in progressive disciplinary  action  up to and 
including termination of employment. Time off in excess of accrued or advanced PTO will be 
unpaid.  The only possible  exception to this policy  must  be granted by the company  CEO.  
 
• PTO accrued prior to the start of a requested  and approved unpaid leave  of absence must  be 
used to cover hours missed before the start of the unpaid leave.  
 
• Unscheduled absences  of four hours  or more due to illnesses,  which  result  in consecutive  days 
absent f rom work, are considered one absence incident in relationship to potential disciplinary 
action.  
 
• The combination of worked hours, non- worked paid hours and PTO hours should not exceed 
the number of hours the Associate is normally authorized to work in a workweek, up to a 
maximum of 40 hours. Example: If an Associate would have normally been scheduled to    
 
24 
 work 36 hours that week, the total number of hours paid, including PTO, may not exceed 36.  
 
Specific Eligibility for Paid Time Off   
 
PTO is earned on the following schedule. PTO is accrued based on full -time pay periods worked, 
without regard for overtime hours worked.  
 
Years of Service:  
• 0-1 years:  Up to 128 PTO  hours accruable per year, earned at an hourly  rate of 0.0615  
PTO hours per hour worked  
 
• 1-3 years: Up to 168 PTO hours accruable per year, earned at an hourly rate of 0.0807 
PTO hours per hour worked  
 
• 4+ years:  Up to 208 PTO  hours  accruable  per year, earned  at a rate of 0.1 PTO hours 
per hour worked  
 
Salary associates who take a full day of PTO must be deducted 8 hours of PTO regardless of 
typical actual hours worked in a day.  
 
Each associate may carry over no more than their maximum amount of accrued PTO on their 
anniversary date of hire. For example, an associate that has been with the company for two years may carry over no more than 168 PTO hours into their third year of employment. Associates are responsible for monitoring and taking their PTO so that they do not lose time accrued when their anniversary occurs .
 
 
If extenuating business circumstances prevented the associate from taking scheduled PTO, this 
PTO may be carried over with Chief Officer approval if it is in excess of the maximum allowable 
carry over amount and is taken in the subsequent 3 calendar months.  
 
Non-Exempt A ssociate s may use PTO as described  below:  
 
• PTO hours wil l be paid at the Associate's base rate  
 
• If the Associate does  not have enough  PTO to cover time taken off from work,  that time will be 
unpaid.  
 
• After the Introductory Period , non- exempt Associates are required to use any 
available PTO to cover missed hours , before tak ing time off without  pay. This requirement  
excludes any  time missed due to flexing/low census  or when  the Assoc iate's  department  or 
location  is closed  due to inclement  weather;  in these instances,  the Associate  may choose to use 
availab le PTO  or take time off without pay.  
 
Exempt  Associates  may use PTO as described below : 
 
• Exempt Associates are paid on a sa laried basis  and, if some hours  are worked in a day, salary  is 
continued with the appropriate PTO  deduction  applied. An exempt Associate  must  take PTO to 
cover  personal  absences.  PTO may be taken only in increments  of a full day  or one-half 
day . While no PTO will  be deducted for an absence less than  4 hours  in a s ingle day, 
such  absences should be limited and pre- approved.  
 
• If an exempt Associate has  fewer than 4 hours of  PTO and t akes a half day  of abs ence, then  100% 
of the balance of  the Associate' s PTO hour bank w ill be withdrawn and the Associate 's salary 
for the day will conti nue w ithout a d educ tion.    
 
25 
  
• If an exempt  Associate w ishes  to take a full day off work , he or she must  have  at lea st 8 hours  
of PTO  for the absence to be paid.  If an exem pt Associate  has fewer than 8 hours  of PTO and  
wishes  to take a full day of absence, then the Associate must take a full day off  without pay . 
 
• When an exempt Associate is on interm ittent or reduced schedu le leave under the Family  and 
Medical  leave  Act ,  MD Billing  may pay the Assoc iate PTO in  any increment  for the 
time that  the Associate is  away from work due to the FMLA -protected cond ition. If no PTO is 
available, MD Billing  may deduct the Assoc iate's salary accordi ngly.  
 
• Deductions may  be made from an exempt Associate 's compensation to account for absences  in 
full day increments  only if the Associ ate has exhausted his or her PTO allowance.   
 
• These procedur es assume the exempt Associate work s a regul ar shift of five days per week.  If the 
Associate  works any other schedul e, the amount of  PTO requi red for half day  absences shoul d 
equal one- half the Assoc iate's  regular shift. Example: If an Associate 's schedule is four 10- hour days  
per week , the Associate  should take PTO  in increments  of five hours.  
 
• Freque nt unscheduled absences  or other  abuse of these guide lines may result  in disciplinary 
action up to  and including term ination. 
 
• Gener ally, the  maximum PTO approved at a time for personal reasons , other than medical 
circumstances , will be two weeks , subject to management  approval. Additiona l PTO may be 
requested and approved  for special c ircumstances.  
 
Holidays/  Fami ly & Cultural  Days  
 
PTO is des igned to cover t ime off for holidays and family and cul tural days. Non- exempt Associates  
may choose whethe r to use available  PTO  or to take the day off without  pay. Exempt Associates must 
use PTO  in the same process  outlined above.  
 Unless MD Billing  has determined an Associate's work  is business  critical and time-  
sensitive,  and 
such work  is approved by the department 's senior  leadershi p, Associ ates may be  requ ired to take off 
work  on the fo llowing  holidays: 
 
• New Years Day 
• Memorial Day  
• Independence Day  
• Labor Day  
• Thanksgiving Day  
• Christmas Day  
  
Associates  working  on a holiday  may be eligible  for additiona l compensat ion as defined in the 
Holiday Diffe rentia ls Policy. 
 Family  and cultural  days  support  MD Billing  commitment  to divers ity and inclus ion all owing 
Associates time  
off for other holidays  that are important to them and their families.  Unless MD Billing  has determined an 
Associ ate's work is business  critical and time- sensit ive, Assoc iates may request  up to four days  per calendar  
year for other  family and cultural days.  
 Associates  may be asked to  provide a descript ion of the day  for which  they are requesting time off and 
the 
request  must  be schedu led and approved in advance by the Associate 's manager.  
 
Associates  working  on a family  or cultural holiday  are not eligible for additional compensation.  
    
 
26 
 Typica lly, holidays  and family or cultural  days  falling on Saturday  will be observed on Friday  and 
holidays  falling on Sunday  will be observed on Monday . 
 
The manager is responsible for schedul ing work on ho lidays accordi ng to business  and consumer 
needs. Managers  should respect the request for time off  for fam ily and cultural days and make 
efforts to accommodate the requests unless a compel ling business need exists that would cause the 
Associate's absence to be detrimental to oper ations  and no rep lacement  is available . 
 
Status Changes  
If an associates status changes from full -time to full -time revenue share, part -time, or PRN the 
associates PTO balance will be forfeited. Balances will not be maintained for future use in any status 
outside of regular full-time status.  
 
Voluntary Separation  
Associates who voluntarily separate from employment will forfeit any remaining Paid Time Off balance. The Company will not pay out any  PTO balance. 
 
 
Associates will not be permitted to cash out their earned hours of PTO.  
 Generally, Associates who have given notice of resignation may not utilize their PTO benefits during the notice period.   PTO hours may not be used to extend employment beyond the last day actually worked. 
 
 
If an associate has used PTO time not yet accrued, and employment terminates, the PTO taken will be 
deducted from the final paycheck. Associates who give notice of employment termination must work 
without utilizing PTO during the entirety of the notice  period.  
 
Rehires  
If an associate separates from employment and is rehired within 30 days, the associate’s previous date of hire will be used for purposes of PTO determination.  
 Other Time Off These guidelines do not cover all absences. An Associate may also be eligible for jury duty leave, bereavement leave, unpaid Family Medical Leave Act leave, Short or Long- Term Disability benefits, and 
other time according to MD Billing  policies and guidelines.  
 
Compensatory Time Off Policy  
  
It is the policy of MD Billing  to permit  exempt employees who work more hours than regularly scheduled to 
receive compensatory time off.  
  
Granting Compensatory Time Off  
Compensatory time off is granted to exempt positions. There is no legal requirement or obligation for MD 
Billing  to grant compensatory time off to exempt employees. A supervisor may choose to grant 
compensatory time off to exempt employees who are required to work in excess of 50 hours or more in a week for a special project or during weekends or any normally scheduled time off. Compensatory time will be granted on a discretionary basis and shall not be more than an hour -for-hour basis of time work, but, 
shall not necessarily be an hour -for-hour basis.  
  Using Compensatory Time Off  An employee who eligible for compensatory time and requests use of the time will only be permitted to use the time within the same pay period or the subsequent pay period. Approval for use of compensatory time will be solely at the supervisor's discretion and with final approval from human resources.  Compensatory 
time will not accrue in any manner to the employee’s benefit otherwise.     
 
27 
 Emergency Closings  
 
At times, emergencies such as severe weather, fires, power failure, or acts of God, can disrupt 
company operations. In extreme cases, these circumstances may require the closing of a work facility. When operations are officially closed due to emergency conditions, non- exempt associates will not be 
paid for the time off from scheduled work. In cases where an emergency closing is not authorized,  
associates who fail to report for work will not be paid for time off. Associates in essential operations may be asked to work on a day when operations are officially closed. In these circumstances, associates who work will receive regular pay.
 
 
Bereavement Leave  
 
Objective  
The Bereavement Leave Policy establishes uniform guidelines for providing paid time off to associates for absences related to the death of immediate family members and fellow associates or retirees  of MD 
Billing .
 
 
Eligibility  
All full- time, active associates are eligible for benefits under this policy after the ninety -day probationary 
period. If an associate is not eligible under these provisions the associate will be granted Leave Without Pay.
 
 
Procedures  
An associate who wishes to take time off due to the death of an immediate family member should notify his or her supervisor as soon as possible but in all instances prior to being absent from work. If an associate leaves work early on the day they are notified of the death, that day will not count as bereavement leave but will be paid as regular pay for salaried associates or hourly associates may utilize Paid Time Off benefits for this time.
 
 
In addition to bereavement leave, an associate may, with his or her supervisor's approval, use any available paid time off  for additional approved time off as necessary. Associates may be required to 
provide documentation with regard to their bereavement leave.
 
 
Bereavement pay is calculated based on the base pay rate at the time of absence, and it will not 
include any special forms of compensation, such as incentives, commissions, bonuses, overtime or 
shift differentials.  
 
Paid bereavement leave will be granted according to the following schedule:  
 
• Associates  are allowed up to three  consecutive days  off f rom regularly  scheduled duty with 
regular pay in the event of the death of the associate's spouse, domestic partner, child, 
parent, father -in-law, mother- in-law, brother or sister.  
 
• Associates  are allowed one day off f rom regular scheduled duty with regular  pay in the event of 
death of the associate's  grandparent,  grandchild or spouse's  grandparent.  
 
• Associates  are allowed up to four hours  of bereavement  leave  to attend the funeral  of a fellow 
regular  associate or retiree  of the company,  provided  such  absence f rom duty will not 
interfere with normal operations of the company.  
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
28 
 Jury Duty Leave  
 
MD Billing  encourages associates to fulfill their civic duties related to jury duty. If you are summoned 
for jury duty, notify your supervisor as soon as possible to make scheduling arrangements.  
 
If you are an exempt associate, you will not incur any deduction in pay for a partial week’s absence 
due to jury duty. If you are a non- exempt associate, you will be compensated for time spent on jury 
duty.  All associates will be compensated for up to five days based on their regular compensation 
schedule. If jury service e xtends beyond five days,  the associate will be compensated at a rate of 60% 
of their regular compensation schedule.  The Company reserves the right to require associates to 
provide proof of jury duty service to the extent authorized by law.  
 
The Company wil l not retaliate against any associate who requests or takes leave in accordance with 
this policy.  
Court Attendance and Witness Leave  
 
MD Billing  realizes that, on occasion, associates may be subpoenaed to appear in a civil, criminal, 
legislative, or administrative proceeding. In such cases, you will be provided unpaid leave to attend. Notify your supervisor as soon as possible to make scheduling arrangements. You may opt to use PTO in place of unpaid leave.
 
 
The Company reserves the right to require associates to provide proof of the need for leave to the extent authorized by law.
 
 
The Company will not retaliate against any associate who requests or takes leave in accordance with this policy.
 
 
Voting Leave  
 
If your work schedule prevents you from voting on Election Day, the Company will allow you a reasonable time off to vote. The time when you can go to vote will be at the discretion of your supervisor, consistent with applicable legal requirements.
 
 
Leave of Absence  
 
PURPOSE: The purpose of this policy is to set forth MD Billing .  leaves of absence in an 
integrated manner. The policy addresses leaves of absence for the following reasons:  serious 
health condition;  pregnancy disability;  parenting;  family care;  personal;  military; and  other medical/reasonable accommodations. The policy also addresses the use of Paid/Extended Time Off.
 
 
1. MDB  leave of Absence Policy Outline: Provisions that Apply to Multiple  Policies  
 
1.1 PAY WHILE ON  LEAVE  
1.1.1  Leaves  of absen ce are generally  provided  on an unpaid basis.  Unless  prohibited  by 
law, associates are required to use all applicable Paid Time Off  while on 
leave.  
1.1.2  The substitution of any paid benefits  does  not extend the total amount  of leave  that 
may be taken  under system  policy  and applicable  law. When  paid benefits  are 
exhausted, the remaining leave period will be unpaid.  
1.1.3  PTO will be paid until the balance drops below 1 hour.  
1.1.4  Accrued PTO hours must be taken at the rate of the regular work 
schedule,  not exceeding 80 hours per pay  period.     
 
29 
  
1.2 BENEFIT CONTINUATION WHILE ON  LEAVE  
1.2.1  As allowed by law, group  health insurance benefits  will be continued  for a maximum  
of 12 weeks;  thereafter,  associates  may be eligible  to continue benefits  through  a