Violation  
Violation s of Federal and State laws concerning HIPAA can result in significant criminal and civil penalties 
for MD Billing , partners and associates, including imprisonment, fines, penalties, and damages.  
Associates who are found in violation of HIPAA may be subject to corrective action up to and including 
termination. An employee who utilizes MD Billing  medical records to obtain private health information on 
themselves and/or their family members may be violating HIPAA. If an employee needs access to theirs or their family member’s medical record, the employee must request through the Medical Records department.  
 
Reporting Potential or Suspected Violations  
All employees have an ongoing obligation to report concerns about compliance with HIPAA.  
In no event shall any individual who reports a concern be subject to any retribution or retaliation related to a report which they reasonably believed to be true and offered in good faith.  
Confidentiality shall apply to the report and to the person making the report, though investigation of the report may necessitate reasonable disclosure on a “need- to-know” basis.  
Questions regarding a potential or suspected violation should first be reported to the immediate supervisor.  
If it is felt that the matter cannot be discussed with the immediate supervisor, the associate may contact the company compliance officer.  
Protection of Property  
 
Every associate is responsible for helping to make MD Billing  a secure work environment. Upon 
leaving work, lock all desks, lockers, and doors protecting valuable or sensitive material in your work area and report any lost or stolen keys, passes, or other similar devices to your supervisor 
immediately. You should refrain from discussing with non- associates specifics regarding Company 
security systems, alarms, passwords, etc.  
 
We also request that you immediately advise your supervisor of any known or potent ial security risks 
and/or suspicious conduct of associates, customers, or guests of the Company. Safety and security is the responsibility of every associate and we rely on you to help us keep our premises secure.
 
 
Intellectual Property  
 
Confidentiality  
The Company will not release information on associates without the proper release as required by law. 
We will maintain personal information and client company information in strict confidence. Associates’ spouses and friends may not obtain information concerning health conditions, payroll, or other personal 
information without the associate signing the proper release documents. An associate found to be 
sharing confidential company information with other associates or outside of the company will be considered a violation and disciplinary action up to and including termination from employment could 
result.
 
 
Associate Inventions  
Any associate invention created, in whole or in part, during an associate’s work hours, or from the use of the Company’s equipment or facilities, is a “work for hire” and the property of the Company.
 
 
Any associate who intends to develop and maintain property rights in any invention, which relates in any way to the Company’s products or services, is required to obtain a written waiver of t his policy, 
signed by both the associate and Chief Executive Officer.
 
 
Confidentiality and Non- Disclosure of Trade Secrets  
As a condition of employment, Company associates are required to protect the confidentiality of Company trade secrets, proprietary in formation, and confidential Company -related commercially -
sensitive  information . Access to this information should be    
 
52 
 limited to a “need to know” basis and should not be used for personal benefit, disclosed, or released 
without prior authorization from a supervisor. Any associate who has information that leads them to suspect that an associate or competitor is obtaining such information is required to inform their supervisor or Human Resources.
 
 
Violation of this policy may result in the discipline or termination of any associate, as well as subject the 
associate to civil liability.  
 
Products and Services Knowledge  
As an associate of MD Billing , you are expected to be familiar with the products and services we offer. 
Take every opportunity to learn the interrelationship between your department or division and the 
others of the Company. We consider our associates to be the best reflection of our business brand and 
company success. 
Telephone Use  
 
Our phones are principally used for work -related communications. Unless there is an emergency, 
associates are required to limit telephone calls to business purposes only. Associates should limit 
personal use of the telephone to brief communications during rest periods when possible. Casual conversation with friends and relatives during working hours is strongly discouraged, including 
conversations taking place on personal cell phones. Telephone use is subject to the 
Voicemail/Email/Internet Usage Policy.
 
 
Mail Use  
 
Associates are required to limit usage of the company’s mail service to business purposes only. You 
may not use the Company address to receive personal mail. Do not use the Company postage meter 
for your personal mail. If you notice any suspicious packages or envelopes, please report this to Human Resources immediately.
 
 
Company -Provided Mobile Device Policy  
 
The purpose of this policy is to provide guidance to departments and associates regarding eligibility for 
Company -provided cell phones and plans and the appropriate use of the phone and plan.  
 
An associate must have a legitimate business need for a cell phone/mobile device and the issuance of  
same to the associate must be approved by the associate’s supervisor. The typical, legitimate reasons 
why an associate may need a cell phone/mobile device include frequent traveler needs or when the associate is a member of key personnel who must be immediately reachable in the event of an 
emergency.
 
 
When  the cell phone/mobile  device  is used f or personal  reasons  and the activity  results  in additional  
cost to the Company,  the individual  is responsible  for the cost of that usage,  including all applicable  
taxes.  The associate should  make note of personal  calls and reimburse  the Company  after  review  of 
the monthly  call detail.  
 
If the cell phone/mobile  device  has a f lat rate airtime/data plan,  the user is responsible  for reimbursing  
the Company when personal activities cause the plan threshold to be exceeded. The associate, with 
concurrence of an authorized signer on the account, should determine the amount of personal use 
that caused the usage to exceed the plan and reimburse the Com pany for that amount plus all 
applicable taxes.  
 
The company owns and remains entitled to all cell phone/mobile devices, including all passwords 
controlling access to them. You may not change those passwords except with permission. At the time of employment termination, all such equipment and passwords must be returned to the company in 
operable condition.
 
    
 
53 
 Personal Mobile Device Use  
  
While MD Billing  permits associates to bring personal cell phones and other mobile devices  into the workplace, associates must not permit the use of such devices to 
interfere with their job duties or impact workplace safety and health.   
  
Use of personal cell phones and mobile devices at work can be distracting and disruptive and cause a loss of associate productivity. As a result, associates should primarily use such personal devices during 
nonworking time, such as breaks and meal periods. During this time, associates should use their devices in 
a manner that is courteous to those around them. Outside of nonworking time, use of such devices should be kept at a minimum and limited to emergency use only. Associates with devices that have a camera and/or audio/video recording capability are restricted from using those functions on Company property unless authorized in advance by management or used in a manner consistent with the rights of associates 
to engage in concerted activity.   
  
Associates are expected to comply with Company policies regarding the protection of the employer’s 
confidential and proprietary information when using personal devices.   
 
Associates may have the opportunity to use their personal devices for work purposes. Before using a 
personal device for work -related purposes, an associate must obtain written authorization from their 
supervisor. The use of personal devices is limited to certain associates and may be limited based on 
compatibility of technology. Associates authorized to use a personal device will receive a monthly stipend based on the estimated use of the device. If an associate obtains or currently has a plan that exceeds the monthly stipend, MD Billing  will not be liable for the cost difference.   
  
Noth ing in this policy is intended to prevent associates from engaging in protected concerted activity under 
the NLRA.   
  
Violation of this policy will subject an associate to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment.   
 
Voicemail, Emai l, and Internet Policy  
 
Inappropriate use of corporate systems exposes the Company to risk, it is important to specify exactly what is permitted and what is prohibited. The purpose of this policy is to detail the acceptable use of corporate information tec hnology resources for the protection of all parties involved.
 
The scope of this policy includes any and all use of corporate information resources, including but not 
limited to company assigned voicemail access, computer systems, email, the network, and th e 
corporate Internet connection.  
Policies  
 
Network Access  
As the user will be given access to the corporate network, Internet, and other IT resources, the Company expects the user to use these resources in a responsible manner.
 
 
The user must make a concerted effort to avoid accessing network data, files, and information that are 
not directly related to his or her job function. Existence of access capabilities does not imply permission to use this access.
 
 
Web Browsing and Internet Usage  
The Internet is a network of interconnected computers of which the Company has very little control. 
The user must recognize this when using the Internet and understand that it is a public domain and they can come into contact with information, even inadvertently, that they may find offensive, sexually explicit, or inappropriate, or that may be illegal in some jurisdictions. The user must use the Internet at 
his or her own risk. The Company is specifically not responsible for any information that the user views, 
reads, or downloads from the Internet.
    
 
54 
  
Personal Use  
The Company recognizes that the Internet can be a tool that is useful for both personal and 
professional purposes. Personal usage of company computer systems to access the Internet is 
permitted as long as such usage follows pertinent guidelines elsewhere in this document and does not have a detrimental
 
effect on the Company or on the user's job performance.  
 
Peer -to-Peer File Sharing  
Peer- to-Peer  file sharing/networking is not allowed on the corporate network under any 
circumstance.  
 
Streaming Media  
Streaming media can use a great deal of network resources and thus must be used carefully. Reasonable use of streaming media is permitted as long as it does not negatively impact the computer 
network or the user' s job performance. Streaming services such as Netflix, Hulu, or other entertainment 
services are not to be used.
 
 
Blogging  
Blogging by the Company's associates is subject to the terms of this policy, whether performed from 
the corporate network, personal s ystems, or other external systems. The user is asked to recognize 
that information posted on a blog immediately becomes publ ic information and thus to exercise 
extreme discretion in the type of information posted. In no blog or website, including blogs or sites 
published from personal or public systems, shall internal company business matters be discussed, confidential data released, or material detrimental to the Company published.
 
 
As long as company policies, as specified herein, are followed, the Company allows the publishing and use of blogs. However, when done from the corporate network or during business hours, blogging must 
either A) be business related, or B) consume no more than a trivial amount of the user’s time and 
network resources. The user as sumes all risks associated with blogging.
 
 
Instant Messaging  
The user should recognize that instant messaging technology, unless specific encryption measures are 
taken, is an insecure medium and should take any necessary steps to follow guidelines on discl osure 
of confidential data. Unencrypted confidential data must never be sent via instant messaging 
technologies.  
 
Bandwidth Usage  
Excessive use of company bandwidth or other computer resources, where not required by job function, 
is not permitted. Large fi le downloads or other bandwidth- intensive tasks that may degrade network  
capacity or performance must be performed during times of low company -wide bandwidth usage, such 
as after regular business hours. The Company may restrict bandwidth for certain servic es deemed 
non- critical to company operations, or as it sees f it to preserve network functionality.  
  
Unacceptable Use 
The following actions shall constitute unacceptable use of the corporate network. This section is not 
exhaustive but is included to provide a frame of reference for types of activities that are deemed 
unacceptable.  
 
Prohibited Actions  
The user may not use the corporate network and/or systems to:  
 
• Engage  in activity  that is illegal under local,  state,  federal,  or international  law .  
• Engage  in any activities that may cause  embarrassment,  loss of reputation,  or other  harm  to    
 
55 
 the Company.  
• View,  access,  download,  store,  or distribute violent,  pornographic,  obscene,  lewd,  or offensive 
material.  
• Disseminate  defamatory,  discriminatory,  vilifying,  sexist,  racist,  abusive,  rude,  annoying,  
insulting, threatening, obscene or otherwise inappropriate messages or media.  
• Engage in activities that cause an invasion of privacy.  
• Engage  in activities that cause disruption  to the workplace environment  or create  a hostile 
workplace.  
• Make fraudulent  offers  for products  or services.  
• Reveal  personal  or network  usernames  or passwords  to others,  including coworkers,  family, f 
riends,  or other members  of the household when  working  f rom home or remote locations.  
 
Circumvention of Security  
Using company -owned or company -provided computer systems to circumvent any security systems, 
authentication systems, user -based systems, or the escalation of privileges is expressly prohibited. 
Knowingly taking any actions to bypass or circumvent company security systems is expressly 
prohibited. This includes disabling or tamperi ng with any company supplied security software, such as 
antivirus/anti - malware software, firewall software, or remote access software.  
 
Use for Illegal Activities  
• No company -owned or company -provided computer systems may be used for activities that are 
considered illegal under local, state, federal, or international law. Such actions may include, but 
are not limited to, the following:  
• Unauthorized Port Scanning.  
• Unauthorized  Network  Hacking,  including:  packet  sniffing,  port scanning,  packet  spoofing,  
denial of service , wireless  hacking.  
• Any act that may  be considered an attempt  to gain unauthorized access  to or escalate 
privileges on a computer or other electronic  system.  
• Acts of Terrorism.  
• Cybercrime, extortion, or Identity  Theft.  
o Downloading,  storing,  or distributing  any material  prohibited by law. 
o Downloading,  installing,  or distributing  unlicensed or "pirated"  software.  
o Sending  unsolicited bulk email or other messages  deemed  illegal  under applicable 
regulations.  
 
Where illegal activities are discovered, the Company will take all necessary steps to report the activities to the relevant authorities and will cooperate with any resulting prosecution.
 
 
Monitoring and Privacy  
Users should expect no privacy when using the corporate network or company resources. Such use 
may include but is not limited to: transmission and storage of files, data, and messages. The Company reserves the right to monitor any and all use of the computer network. To ensure complianc e with 
company policies this may include the interception and review of any emails, or other messages sent or received; inspection of data stored on personal file directories, hard disks, and removable media; and monitoring of Internet/network/computer usage.
 
 
Responsible Computer and Network Use  
The Company expects users to use the network responsibly. Personal usage of company computer 
systems is permitted as long as such usage follows pertinent guidelines elsewhere in this document 
and does not have a detrimental effect on the Company or on the user's job performance.  
 
Non-Company -Owned Equipment  
Non-company -provided computer equipment is prohibited from being connected to the Company's 
network without prior authorization. Any personal computer equipment that access company resources 
must meet co mpany security standards for endpoint security and data encryption. Examples of this 
are: laptops, notebooks, tablet computers, smartphones, etc.     
 
56 
  
Removable Media  
Personal  storage devices represent a serious threat to data security and are 
expressly  prohibited f rom being  connected to the Company's  network.  Examples  of this are: USB  
drives, f lash storage,  media  players,  etc. 
 
Storage media supplied by the Company is allowed, however guidelines on confidential/ePHI, such as 
those found in the Confidential Data and Mobile Device Policies, must be strictly followed.  
 
Software Installation  
Installation of non- company -supplied software applications is prohibited. Numerous security threats 
can masquerade as innocuous software - malware,  spyware, and Trojans can all be installed 
inadvertently through games or other  programs.  Alternatively,  software can cause conflicts  or 
have a negative impact on system  performance.  
 
Email Usage  
The Company provides work email for all users that require it. All email sent or received using company email is company property. The following guidelines apply to email usage:
 
 
Email is not inherently secure and no P HI or highly confidential data should be sent via email unless 
using an encrypted email s olution.  
 
Email can be setup on a personal device , however the company 
reserves the right to remotely wipe that device if employment is terminated and it cannot be verified 
that all company email and data was removed from the device.  
 
Social Media Policy  
 
At MD Billing , we recognize the Internet provides unique opportunities to participate in interactive 
discussions and share information using a wide variety of social media. However, use of social media also presents certain risks and carries with it certain responsibilities. To minimize risks to the 
Company, you are expected to follow our guidelines for appropriate use of social media. This policy 
applies to all associates who work for the Company.
 
 
Guidelines  
For purposes of this policy, social media includes all means of communicating or posting information or 
content of any sort on the Internet, including to your own or someone else’s web log or blog, journal or  
diary, personal website, social networking or affinity website, web bulletin board or a chat room, 
whether associated or affiliated with the Company, as well as any other form of electronic communication.
 
Company principles, guidelines, and policies apply to online activities just as they apply to other areas of work. Ultimately, you are solely responsible for what you communicate on social media. You may be 
personally responsible for any litigation that may arise should you make unlawful, defamatory, 
slanderous, or libelous statements against any customer, manager, owner, or associate of the company.
 
 
Know and Follow the Rules  
Ensure your postings are consistent with these guidelines. Postings that include unlawful, 
discriminatory remarks, harassment, and threats of violence or other unlawful conduct will not be 
tolerated and may subject you to disciplinary action up to and including termination.  
 
Be Respectful  
The Company cannot force or mandate respectful and courteous activity by associates on social media during non- working time. If you decide to post complaints or criticism, avoid using statements, 
photographs, video, or audio that reasonably could be viewed as unlawful, slanderous, threatening, or that might constitute unlawful harassment. Examples of such conduct might include defamatory or    
 
57 
 slander ous posts meant to harm someone’s reputation or posts that could contribute to a hostile work  
environment  on the basis  of race,  sex, disability,  age, national  origin,  religion,  veteran status,  or any 
other status  or class protected by law or company  policy.  Your  personal  posts  and social  media activity 
should not reflect upon or  refer to the Company.  
 
Maintain Accuracy and Confidentiality  
When posting information:  
 
• Maintain the confidentiality  of Company  trade  secrets,  intellectual  property,  and confidential 
Company -related commercially -sensitive  information .  
• Do not create a link f rom your personal  blog,  website,  or other  social  networking site to a 
Company website that identifies you as speaking on behalf of the Company.  
• Never represent  yourself as  a spokesperson  for the Company.  If the Company  is a subject  of 
the content  you are creating, do not represent  yourself  as speaking on the Company’s  behalf.  
Make it clear  in your social  media  activity that you are speaking on your own behalf.  
• Respect copyright,  trademark,  third-party  rights,  and similar  laws and use such  protected 
information in compliance  with applicable  legal  standards.  
 
Using Social Media at Work  
Do not use social media while on your work time, unless  it is work related as authorized by your 
manager or consistent with policies that cover Company -owned equipment.  
 
Media Contacts  
If you are not authorized to speak on behalf of the Company, do not speak to the media on the  
Company’s behalf. Direct all media inquiries for official Company responses to Human Resources.  
 
Retaliation and Associate Rights  
Retaliation or any other negative action is prohibited against an associate who, based on a reasonable 
belief, reports a possible deviation from this policy or cooperates in an investigation. Any associate who retaliates against another associate for reporting a possible deviation from this policy or for cooperating in an investigation will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
 
 
Nothing in this policy is designed to interfere with, restrain, or prevent associate communications 
regarding wages, hours, or other terms and conditions of employment, or to restrain associates in 
exercising any other right protected by law. Associates have the right to engage in or refrain from such activities. 
 
Password Policy and Requirements  
 
Password Construction  
The best security against a password incident is simple: follow a sound password construction strategy. The organization mandates that users  adhere to the following guidelines on password 
construction:
 
• Passwords must be at least 12  characters.  
• Passwords must be comprised of a mix of upper - and lower- case characters.  
• Passwords  must  not be single words  that can be found  in a dictionary  . 
• Passwords  must  not be comprised  of an obvious  keyboard  sequence   
• Passwords  must  not include "guessable" data such  as personal  information about  yourself,  
your spouse,  your pet, your children,  birthdays,  addresses,  phone numbers,  locations,  etc. 
• Ideally, place yourself  in a well-known area  and pick 4 unrelated, 
random  objects. That’s your password. By using a familiar space, you can easily place 
yourself back in the situation and recall what you picked, making your password easy to 
remember.  
    
 
58 
 Confidentiality  
Passwords are considered confidential data and treated with the same discretion as any of the 
organization's proprietary information. The following guidelines apply to the confidentiality of organization passwords:
 
 
• Users must not disclose their passwords to anyone.  
• Users must not share their passwords with others .  
• Users must not write down their passwords and leave them  unsecured.  
• Users must not check the "save password" box when authenticating to applications.  
• Users  must  not use the same  password for different  systems and/or  accounts.  
• Users must not send passwords via email.  
• Users must not re -use passwords.  
 
Change Frequency  
To maintain good security, passwords must be periodically changed. This limits the damage an attacker can do as well as helps to frustrate and slow brute force attempts. At a minimum, users must change passwords every 360 days.  The organization may use software that enforces this policy by 
expiring users' passwords after this time period. When selecting a new password, users must not 
select a password that is substantially the same as, or similar to, the previous password.
 
 
Comp uter Security and Copying of Software  
 
Software programs purchased and provided by the Company are to be used only for creating, 
researching, and processing Company -related materials. By using the Company’s hardware, software, 
and networking systems, you assume personal responsibility for their use and agree to comply with 
this policy and other applicable Company policies, as well as city, state, and federal laws and 
regulations.  
 
All software acquired for, or on behalf of, the Company or developed by Company associates or contract personnel on behalf of the Company is and shall be deemed Company property. It is the 
policy of the Company to respect all computer software rights and to adhere to the terms of all software 
licenses to which the Company is a party. The Director of Information Technology is responsible for enforcing these guidelines.
 
 
Company users may not illegally duplicate any licensed software or related documentation. Unauthorized duplication of software may subject users and/or the Company to both civil and criminal 
penalties under the United States Copyright Act. To purchase software, users must obtain the approval of their manager. All software acquired by the company must be purchased through the Information Technology Department.
 
 
Users may not duplicate, copy, or give software to any outsiders including clients, contractors, customers, and others. Company users may use software on local area networks or on multiple 
machines only in accordance with applicable license agreements entered into by the Company.
 
 
Privacy and Right to Inspect  
 
Company property, including but not limited to, lockers, phones, computers, tablets, desks, workplace 
areas, vehicles, or machinery, remains under the control of the Company and is subject to inspection 
at any time without notice to the associate and without the associate’s presence. Associates should 
have no expectation of privacy in any of these areas. We assume no responsibility for the loss or 
damage to any associate property maintained on Company premises, including items kept in lockers and desks.
 
 
Any Company provided workspace, including offices,  lockers , or cubicles for the personal possessions 
of its associates should be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. As part of the associate’s 
privilege for use of these accommodations , associates must agree to allow the Company to inspect or 
otherwise gain access to its contents at any time, with or without notice to the associate, and without    
 
59 
 the associate’s presence.  
 
 
Vehicles, Equipment, Tools, or Uniforms on Loan 
 
You are responsible for safekeeping of equipment, tools, or uniforms that are furnished to you. Your 
supervisor may require a deposit. When your employment with the Company is terminated, voluntarily 
or involuntarily, you m ust return equipment, tools, or uniforms that were loaned to you. This policy 
permits your worksite employer to recover the cost of such items when they are furnished without a deposit and not returned upon termination of employment.
 
 
Method of repayment will be in compliance with the Wage and Hour Division regulations under the 
Fair Labor Standards Act . You may be asked to sign a payroll withholding authorization form 
to reimburse your worksite  employer  for missing  items.  The funds  may be withheld f rom your f inal 
paycheck.  
 
Off-Duty Use of Company Property or Premises  
 
Associates may not use Company property for personal use during working time. Associates are responsible for returning Company property in good condition and repairing or replacing any property damaged as the result of personal use or as the result of negligence. This includes using copy machines, computers, Company products, or office supplies for personal use without prior 
authorization.
 
 
It is the policy of the Company to control off duty and non- working hour use of Company facilities either  
for business or personal reasons. Associates are prohibited from using Company facilities during off 
duty or non- working hours without the written consent of their supervisor. Associates using Company 
facilities during off -duty hours or non- Company hours may be required to sign a log- in and log- out 
sheet maintained by the Company or building manager.  
 
Driving Policy  
 
MDB  will strictly enforce the policies governing the use of personal and company -owned vehicles used 
while on company time to ensure that associates have the proper credentials to drive any vehicle on company time, to authorize specific associates the use of company -owned vehicles and the rules and 
policies that will apply for those associates, to ensure that vehicle accidents and property damage are reported correctly and to address parking issues. All associates designated as Authorized Driver and all associates who are directed by a supervisor to drive while on company time.
 
 
Driver’s License  
A valid state driver’s license must be fully in force any time an associate drives any vehicle  while on company time as required by state law.
 
 
The temporary suspension or total revocation of the driver’s license by any government authority must be reported to the Human Resources Department immediately.
 
 
Driving while on company time without a valid driver’s license is a violation of company policy and is considered misconduct.
 
 
Insurance Coverage  
Personal vehicle liability insurance coverage is required of all drivers, regardless of whether the vehicle 
is personally, or company owned. The insurance must be fully in force at all times as required by state 
law. Driving on company time without valid insurance coverage is a violation of company policy and considered misconduct.
 
 
Proof of current insurance must be kept on file at all times. Each associate has a limited amount of    
 
60 
 time to respond to the r equests for proof of insurance before driving privileges on company time will be 
suspended.  
 
Driving without current proof of insurance on file is not allowed and can result in suspension of driving 
privileges. Associates who cannot perform job duties without the use of driving privileges may be subject to termination if not corrected.
 
 
Authorized Drivers  
The Human Resources Department will maintain the list of all Authorized Drivers.  
 
Authorized Drivers are determined to be those associates whose job duties require that they travel  
frequently between MDB  locations and other third- party sites in the course of carrying out company - 
related business.  
 
Authorized Drivers will undergo training on an annual basis, and periodically, as deemed necessary to 
satisfy safety requirements of the company. Training will comply with changing state laws and 
insurance requirements.  
 
Authorized Drivers qualify for mileage reimbursement.  
 
Authorized Drivers who experience a change in their mode of transportation, which could negatively 
affect their ability to perform work duties, OR who may no longer be in compliance with policies, are 
required to report these changes to the Human Resources Department.  
 
Personal Vehicles  
Associates are responsible for the maintenance and care of  their personal vehicles. Use of their 
vehicles to transport company property should be done with caution as any related damage is the responsibility of the associate.  
 
Theft of damage of any type to an associate’s vehicle, vehicle used in the course doing company 
business, is the sole responsibility of the associate.  
 
Personal vehicle accidents are the sole responsibility of the associate and not MDB . It is expected 
that associates will take all precautions when driving, loading and unloading, and while parking.  
 
Associates are financially responsible for all moving and non- moving violations in their personal 
vehicle.  
 
Company -Owned Vehicles  
Only authorized associates may drive company -owned vehicles.  
 
Authorized Drivers of company vehicles will comply with all State driving laws and adhere to policies 
regarding the use of company assets.  
 
• The following rules apply to authorized drivers of company -owned vehicles:  
• Personal  use of company -owned vehicle  is NOT  allowed.  Examples  included:  providing  rides  to 
others, making personal deliveries and running personal  errands.  
• No passengers,  other than for legitimate  business  purposes,  shall be allowed to ride in 
company vehicles. Associates who are passengers are limited to those who are Authorized 
Drivers OR who have a legitimate reason to ride as a passenger to carry out company  
business.  
• Under no circumstances shall any passenger be allowed to ride in the bed of trucks, the rear 
section of vans, on vehicle fenders or in any other unsafe manner, including any areas where a 
restraint device in unavailable.  
• Seat belt use is required for everyone at all times when the vehicle is in motion.  
• Smoking in company -owned vehicles IS NOT  permitted.     
 
61 
 • Company -owned  vehicles  should  never be lef t unlocked at any time which  includes  exiting  the 
vehicle to make deliveries or to handle other company  business.  
• All drivers  are responsible  for the safekeeping of vehicle  keys  provided to them  and will pay the 
replacement cost if lost or stolen.  
• All drivers are responsible for the safekeeping of company -provided gasoline credit cards. 
Drivers  are obligated  to immediately  report  lost or stolen card to a Supervisor.  Failure to do so 
may result in disciplinary  action.  
• All drivers  are responsible  for keeping the interior and exterior of vehicles  neat and clean  while  
in their  use. 
• All drivers are always expected to employ safe driving practices and to be alert.  
 
Special Equipment in Company -Owned Vehicles  
Due to safety, efficiency and other business purposes, the Company may use GPS technology to 
monitor the whereabouts of vehicles at all times; associates will be notified of such monitoring.  
 
Cell Phone Usage is Limited to Hands -free Usage ONLY  
Cell phone use is prohibited while  driving  on company  time expect  by use of a hand s-f ree device  in 
either their personal or company  vehicle.  
 
Associates should make necessary calls before or after driving i f a hands -free device is not available 
for use.  
 
Motorcycles/Scooters will not be used as Transportation on Company Time  
Motorcycles or scooters may be driven to and from work; however, this mode of transportation MAY 
NOT be used while on company time.  
 
Associates whose only mode of transportation is a motorcycle or scooter may not be an Authorized Driver.
 
 
Parking Policy  
MDB  reserves the right to designate areas for associate parking on or off premises that, in its 
discretion, provides an adequate number  of spaces for this purpose.  
 
Mileage Reimbursement  
If an associate drives a company -owned vehicle, compensable time for the day will begin at the 
location where the designated vehicle is picked up.  
 
If the company -owned vehicle is unavailable due to repai r needs, or is issued to another driver for 
some reason, then the associate will drive their own vehicle and qualify for mileage reimbursement.  
 
Reporting Moving Violations   
Associates authorized to drive either a company ve hicle or their personal vehicle while on company 
time are required to report the following situations to the Human Resources department:  
 
Any moving violation  or accident  for which  a police  report  is f iled, whether it occurs  on the job or on 
personal time. This includes, but is not limited to the following:  
 
• Speeding violations  
• DUI citations/arrests  
• Vehicle accidents  
• Suspension or cancellation  of a driver’s  license.  
• Cancellation of vehicle liability insurance coverage, which is required by state  law. 
 
Any of these situations will necessitate a review of the circumstances surrounding the violations and/or 
accident. Depending on a variety of factors, this may result in non- action or a written warning. In 
extreme cases, however, it might result in revocation of driving privileges while on company time. A    
 
62 
 revocation of driving privileges, depending on the specific job, could lead to disciplinary action up to 
and including termination.  
 
Failure to report any moving violations or accident, suspension or cancellation within five  days may 
lead to disciplinary action up to and including termination.  
 
Procedure to Follow for Vehicle Accidents/Property Damage   
Company -Owned Vehicle  
• Call direct  supervisor  and to report  accident/damage.  Take  photos  of the accident/ damage or 
have your supervisor do it when they arrive.  
• Call the police and report the accident/property  damage.  
• Obtain names,  addresses,  phone number,  vehicle  identification  number,  license  plate number, 
insurance information and driver license information of individuals  involved.  
• Lock vehicle and leave at scene; or vehicle may be towed.  
• Supervisor will take associate to closest  Occupation  clinic  as soon as possible  for: 
• Drug test   
• Breath alcohol  test 
• Physical exam by medical  provider  
• Completion of Incident/Accident/Injury  Report  
• Associate will not drive on the clock until results of drug test are received as negative  
• Associate will return to work if cleared by medical  provider  
 
Personal Vehicle  
• Call direct supervisor and report  accident/damage  
• Call the police and report the accident/property  damage.  
• Obtain names,  addresses,  phone number,  vehicle  identification  number,  license  plate number, 
insurance information and driver license information of individuals  involved.  
• Lock vehicle and leave at scene; or vehicle may be towed.  
• Supervisor will take associate to closest  Occupation  clinic  as soon as possible  for: 
• Drug test   
• Breath alcohol  test 
• Physical exam by medical  provider  
• Completion of Incident/Accident/Injury  Report  
• Associate  will not drive  on the clock until results  of drug test are received  as negative  
• Associate will return to work if cleared by medical  provider  
 
Personal Appearance   
  
Your personal appearance reflects on the reputation, integrity, and public image of MD Billing . All associates 
are required to report to work neatly groomed and dressed. You are expected to maintain personal hygiene habits that are generally accepted in the community, including clean clothing, good grooming and personal hygiene, and appropriate attire for the workplace and the work being performed. This may include wearing 
company uniforms or protective safety clothing and equipment, depending upon the job. Use common 
sense and good judgment in determining what to wear to work.   
  
Fragrant products, including but not limited to perfumes, colognes, and scented body lotions or hair products, should be used in moderation out of concern for others with sensitivities or allergies.   
  
The Company will make every effort to reasonably accommodate associates with disabilities or with religious beliefs that make it difficult for them to comply fully with the personal appearance policy. Contact your manager, supervisor, etc. to request a reasonable accommodation.   
  
Failure to comply with the personal appearance standards may result in being sent home to groom or 
change clothes. Frequent violations may result in disciplinary action, up to and including, termination of 
employment.   
     
 
63 
  
 
 
Clinical Associates:   
  
• Required to wear scrubs or business attire  
• Fingernails should be kept clean and neat, no longer than ¼ inch; polish should be neat and free of 
chipping; acrylic nails are not allowed.   
• Footwear should be neat and clean, in good repair, and presentable. Must meet department specific guidelines. No open sandals or crocs,    
• Must follow facility guidelines   
 
Solicita tions and Distribution 
 
MD Billing . prohibits the solicitation , distribution  of literature, products or services, and posting of 
materials during working hours  on the workplace premises by any associate or non- associate, unless 
authorized by senior management.  
 
This policy applies to all associates as well as external visitors, partners and customers that may be on company premises during working hours.
 
 
“Workplace ” refers to any area on premises where associates work  This definition excludes cafeterias, common rooms, hallways or other places where associates 
don’t usually carry out their job duties.  
 
“Working hours ” are any time during which an associate is expected to carry out their job duties. This 
definition excludes meal or rest breaks.  
 
Solicitation is any form of requesting money, support or participation for products, groups, 
organizations or causes which are unrelated to our company. These include but are not limited to:  
Seeking funds  or donations  for a non-profit  organization  
Asking  for signatures  for a petition  
Selling merchandise or  services  
Requesting support for a political candidate  
Engaging in religious  proselytism  
 
Associates may not solicit other associates during working time, except in connection with a Company 
approved or sponsored event. Associates may not distribute literature of any kind during work times, or in any work area at any time, except in connection with a Company -sponsored event. We ask that you 
do not disturb or distract colleagues from their work. We also prohibit offensive solicitation or 
solicitation for personal profit.
 
 
This policy applies in the same manner to all individuals or groups. Our company and managers must 
not allow one group or person to engage in solicitation, while excluding others.  
 
Distribution refers to disseminating literature or material for commercial or political purposes.  
 
The posting of materials or electronic announcements are permitted with approval from Human Resources.
 
 
Violation of this policy should be reported to Human Resources.  
 
 
 
Visitors in the Workplace     
 
64 
  
Visits by non- employees are not allowed unless prior approval is given by the director of operations or other 
senior operations executive.  
  All approval requests are to be submitted to the director of operations  via email at least 48 
hours in advance. If it is less than 48 hours, must call for approval and this should be as infrequent as 
possible. The email should state the purpose of the visit and the expected duration the visitor will be on site. 
Director of operations  may approve recurring visitors for up to 180 days in duration.  
  All visitors are only allowed to observe and should always be accompanied by an employee. All patient information should be protected, and HIPAA policies observed. Visitors are not authorized to use company 
resources such as computers, supplies, or equipment.  
 
  Upon the day of arrival, the visitor must check in at the front desk and present ID and sign- in including time 
of arrival and sign- out when leaving.  
  
Visitors are required to leave the premises if directed to do so by facility personnel.  
  
Visits by off -duty employees are discouraged and should be limited.  
  Visits by employees on leave are not allowed until the employee is released from care and allowed to return to work unless approved by human resources and a senior level executive.  
  Former employees are not allowed in any patient care area of the facility without prior approval from the director of operations or a senior level executive.  
  Vendors, suppliers, and contractors  are considered visitors and should be subject to all rules outlined in this 
policy.  
  Visits by friends and family members are not allowed.  
  Recording devices are not allowed in the facilities by visitors.  
  
Supervisors’ responsibilities include enforcing all policies and procedures including this visitor policy.  
  
Violations of visitor policies will result in visitors’ privileges being revoked and future visits will be restricted at the   direction of the director of operations and/or a senior level executive.  
 
Company Social Events   
  
MD Billing  recognizes that there are occasions throughout the course of the year where associates may 
wish to arrange social functions on company premises during regular business hours to celebrate special events. Determined by the nature of these events, it may be the case that these social events are attended by clients, suppliers and associates alike. This policy sets out parameters and procedures for such events. 
Nothing in this policy should be read to limit the rights of associates under federal, state or local  labor and 
employment laws. Further, the Company reserves its right to maintain and enforce valid no- solicitation and 
no-distribution rules consistent with federal labor laws.   
  
Although such social events will usually take place away from the workplace and may fall outside of normal 
working hours, the Company's standard code of conduct applies to such events. Whilst it is not the 
Company’s intention to place unnecessary restrictions on associates' enjoyment at such events, for the 
avoidance of doubt, it is in everyone's interest that certain rules of conduct for the protection and comfort of all are observed.   
  
Associates who attend work -related social events must observe and respect to the following guidelines and 
principles:      
 
65 
   
• Improper or other unacceptable behavior will not be tolerated.   
• Alcohol should only be consumed in moderation at work -related social events, regardless and 
irrespective of whether the Company, client or supplier is providing or paying for the drinks.   
• It is strictly forbidden for any associate to engage in the use or supply of illegal drugs, including 
cannabis, at any work -related social event whether on Company premises or not.   
• The Company's policy on harassment and bullying applies to work -related social events.   
• Associates shou ld not say or do anything at a work -related social event that could offend, intimidate, 
embarrass or upset any other person, whether as a joke or not.   
• Swearing and intemperate language are unacceptable at work -related social events.   
• Associates must not behave in any way at any work -related social event that could bring the 
Company, its clients or suppliers name into disrepute.   
  
Any breach of the above rules will render the associate liable to disciplinary action under the Company's disciplinary procedure, up to and including summary dismissal where any offence is deemed to constitute gross misconduct. Unacceptable behavior that might result in a gross misconduct dismissal would include excessive drunkenness, the use or distribution of illegal drugs, unlawful or inappropriate harassment, violence, serious verbal abuse, or assault of either another associate or a third party such as a guest or a 
member of the waiting or bar staff.   
  
Associates are expected to conduct themselves behaviorally and socially as  they would in a workplace 
setting. Managers alike are expected to intervene as necessary if conduct becomes unprofessional. These 
guidelines and principles are in place for the benefit of all associates and to ensure that everyone can enjoy 
work -related social events in a friendly, welcomed and pleasant atmosphere, without fear of being made to 
feel uncomfortable by another associate's conduct.    
  
Health & Safety  
In accordance with the Company’s health and safety policy, you have a general duty to take reasonable 
care of your own health and safety and that of others who may be affected by your acts or omissions. 
Please bear this in mind when consuming alcohol.   
  
Travel   
Associates who intend to drive following a social event, should take all necessary and appropriate steps to 
ensure that they are well within the legal limits to be driving. The Company is not responsible for   
determining an individual’s suitability to drive. Any decision to do so, is entirely at the individual’s discretion.   
  
Associates should be aware that the consequences of driving whilst under the influence of alcohol are severe.   
  
Company car drivers are forbidden from driving any company supplied vehicle, where they have consumed 
any level of alcohol.   
  
If you are not intending to drive, please make travel arrangements in advance of the event, for example by 
public transport or a reputable licensed taxi service.   
  
Accommodation   
Where overnight accommodation is provided, please refer to the Company Expenses Policy for f urther 
details and information.   
  
 
  
 
Third Party Disclosures  
 
From time to time, our Company may become involved in news stories or potential or actual legal    
 
66 
 proceedings of various kinds. When that happens, lawyers, former associates, newspapers, law  
enforcement agencies, and other outside persons may contact our associates to obtain information 
about the incident or the actual or potential lawsuit. The Company  strives to anticipate and manage 
crisis situations in  order to reduce disruption to our associates and to maintain our reputation as a high-
quality company.  
 
In order to avoid providing inaccurate, incomplete or Material Information to outside sources, all outside inquiries regarding the Company or its associates, directors or officers or operations must be referred to an Authorized Spokesperson. Only an Authorized Spokesperson is authorized to make or approve public statements pertaining to the Company or  its associates, directors or officers or operations. 
Specifically, no Insider, other than an Authorized Spokesperson, may communicate Material, Nonpublic Information of the Company to a Third Party.  
 
If you receive such contact, you should answer all media/reporter questions like this: “I am not authorized to comment for MD Billing ,” or, “I do not have the information you want. Let me have our 
Authorized Spokesperson contact you.” To best serve these objectives, the company will respond to the news media in a timely and professional manner only through the authorized spokespersons.
 
 
An insider shall not discuss financial or operational information about competitors. An Authorized Spokesperson should say  that the Company does not comment about its competitors and suggest that 
the Third Party call the competitor directly.
 
 
An insider may not comment on rumors. An Authorized Spokesperson is permitted to state that the 
Company has a policy against commenting on rumors.  
 
Selective disclosure of Material, Nonpublic Information in any forum other than the approved methods 
listed above, and by any individual other than an Authorized Spokesperson, and without the express approval of the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating Officer is considered a violation of this Policy. A violation of this Policy may result in progressive disciplinary action up to and including 
termination of employment.
 
 
If you have any questions about this policy or are not certain what to do when such a contact is made, 
please contact the Human Resources Department.  
 
 
Standards of Conduct  
Disciplinary Process  
 
Violation of Company policies or procedures may result in disciplinary action including demotion, transfer, leave without pay, or termination of employment. The Company encourages a system of progressive discipline depending on the type of prohibited conduct. However, the Company is not required to engage in progressive discipline and may discipline or terminate an associate where they 
violate the rules of conduct or where the quality or value of the associate’s work fails to meet 
expectations at any time.  
 
Again, any attempt at progressive discipline does not imply that your employment is anything other 
than on an “at will” basis.  
 
Discipline in the workplace is essential for the efficient and orderly operations of the business. 
Discipline should never be used as punishment, but to correct an unacceptable behavior or poor work 
performance. Associates are expected to demonstrate good judgment, ethical personal behavior and common sense. If your conduct as an associate comes into question, you can expect to be disciplined to correct the behavior. There are levels of discipline, which will give an associate an opportunity to correct behavior before imposing the most severe form of discipline, which is termination from    
 
67 
 employment.  
 
In appropriate circumstances, management will provide the associate first with a verbal warning, then 
with one or more written warnings, and if the conduct is  not sufficiently altered, eventual demotion, 
transfer,  forced leave, or termination of employment. Your supervisor will make every effort possible to 
allow you to respond to any disciplinary action taken. Understand that while the Company is concerned 
with consistent enforcement of our policies, the Company is not obligated to follow any disciplinary or 
grievance procedure and that depending on the circumstances, associates may be disciplined or 
terminated without any prior warning or procedure.  
 
Standards  of Conduct  
 
MD Billing  wishes to create a work environment that promotes job satisfaction, respect, responsibility, 
integrity, and value for all of our associates, clients, customers, and other stakeholders. Every associate has a shared responsibility toward improving the quality of our work environment. By deciding to work at this Company, you agree to follow the Company’s rules.
 
While it is impossible to list every item that could be considered misconduct in the workplace, what is 
outlined here is a list of common- sense infractions that could result in discipline, up to and including 
immediate termination of employment. This policy is not intended to limit the Company’s right to 
discipline or discharge associates for any reason permitted by law. In fact, while we value our asso ciates, the Company retains the right to terminate an associate on an “at -will” basis.
 
 
General Standards of Conduct  
The following standards are common sense rules that, when violated, will result in the opportunity for the associate to change their behavior, but will subject the associate to termination if, after given an opportunity, their conduct does not improve.
 
 
• Associates must be at their workstations prepared to work at the beginning of their shift.  
• Associates are not permitted to conduct personal or non- work -related business at the work site 
before or after their shift.  
• Failure to dress according to company  policy  
• Each associate is responsible for his / her time records.  
• Associates must notify their supervisor when they are unable to report to work on time.  
• Smoking is permitted in designated areas  only.  
• Associates must follow  safety policies and procedures.  
• Associates must use personal protective equipment  if required, in their work  area.  
• All injuries must be reported regardless of how minor they  appear.  
• All fire regulations must be observed.  
• Associates are not allowed to work overtime, unless approved by their supervisor.  
• Mechanical breakdown of equipment must be reported.  
• Tools must be maintained in serviceable condition and used properly.  
• Company owned or leased vehicles must be inspected daily before  use. 
• Housekeeping is an associate’s responsibility; keep your work area clean.  
• Under no circumstances are you permitted to leave your department  position  without  prior 
approval  from your supervisor.  
• Associates  are required  to keep all correspondence and interaction at the workplace site and 
during work hours limited to business  only.  
• Representatives visit our clinics f rom drug and pharmaceutical companies, home health 
agencies,  DME  agencies,  product  vendor  agencies,  services providing agencies  and so on. 
Associates are not allowed to interact and/or correspond with the aforementioned 
representative unless directed and authorized by their supervisor.  
 
Nothing in this policy is intended to limit associate rights under the National Labor Relations Act.  
 
Major Standards of Conduct  
The following conduct may result in immediate termination without the benefit of progressive discipline.    
 
68 
 Violations of these standards are considered unforgivable and an opportunity to correct the 
unacceptable behavior may not be offered.  
 
• Theft of company  property  
• Theft of fellow associate’s  property  
• Submitting a false record of hours  worked  
• Willful destruction of company  property  
• Conviction of a major  crime  
• Falsifying employment  information  
• Disclosure of Company  trade  secrets  and proprietary  and confidential  information of the 
Company  or its customers,  contractors,  suppliers,  or vendors.  
• Refusal  or failure to follow  directions  or to perform  a requested or required  job task 
• Refusal or failure to follow safety rules and procedures  
• Excessive tardiness or absences  
• Lending keys or key cards to Company property to unauthorized persons  
• Gross misconduct:  outrageous behavior serious enough to warrant  dismissal  
• Deliberate violation of safety  rules  
• Offensive  or indecent  personal  conduct  between associates  and/or  with patients  that is 
disruptive to the company business, including the use of obscene or harassing language.  
• Falsifying company  records  
• Job abandonment  
• Conflict of interest  
• In order to improve efficiency,  profitability,  and quality  patient  care outcomes  associates  may 
be transferred  from one business  location/clinic  to another on a periodic  basis.  When  an 
associate, assigned to be transferred f rom one clinic to another, refuses to be transferred, it 
will be considered as an associate’s  willful separation f rom employment,  and will also be 
considered as job abandonment.  
• Exhibition  of low standard of performance.  
• Carelessness  and negligence  in completing  task  and assignment,  as assigned by the 
supervisor, in a timely, efficient, and effective  manner.  
• Accepting monetary  gifts  
• Discussing  patients’  personal,  private,  health- related,  and financial situation.  
• Insubordination: Associates are expected to follow the company’s chain -of-command when 
addressing their grievances, concerns, and/or complaints. Not following the proper chain- of- 
command will be considered as insubordination and may lead to immediate termination. 
Insubordination is also considered to have occurred when the associate unreasonably 
refuses to obey orders or follow the instructions of their supervisor. It also is considered to 
have occurred when the associate, through hi s/her actions or words, shows disrespect 
toward his/her  supervisor.  
• An associate who calls their supervisor stating that they will be coming late to work but does  
not show  up to work  at all and does  not notify  that they  will be absent for rest of the day will be 
subject  to disciplinary  action up to and/or including termination.  
 
Progressive Discipline  
 
When an associate has been found to have violated one of the General Standards of Conduct  or has 
exhibited a low standard of work performance, they may be disciplined using progressive discipline. This process is normally used for violations that are less serious in nature and where unforeseen circumstances may have influenced the associate’s conduct. When applying this process, the 
associate must be made to understand specifically what standard was violated, what actions are required to correct the behavior, and what action will be taken if the behavior is not corrected. MD 
Billing  reserves th e sole discretion in determining when and how progressive discipline will be 
delivered and at what step disciplined will be administered.
 
 
1st Offense: Verbal Warning  
Associate is counseled and signs the disciplinary action form. .  
 
2nd Offense: Written Warning  
The unacceptable conduct was not corrected, and this is the second warning. Explain what actions are 
needed to correct the conduct and how long they have to make the correction. Explain that the next warning will result in termination. This written document  will be placed in the
 
associate’s personnel file.  
 
3rd Offense: Written Warning with Termination  
Explain that the associate’s conduct has not improved,  and they are being terminated. Document this 
action and place it in the associate’s personnel file.  
 
Unpaid Suspension from Work  
As part of the disciplinary process, associate could be s uspended from work without pay for up to 
three  days at any time during the progressive discipline process.  
 
Note: The foregoing Standards of Conduct are not intended to be inclusive of the required discipline, proper standards of conduct or obligations which associates must observe at all times. The Standards 
of Conduct are not intended to limit the proper rights of anyone but are intended to protect the rights of 
everyone. The company may utilize the procedure to follow the progressive discipline process, but it does not have to follow the sequence described above.
 
 
Immediate Suspension and/or Termination 
 
If an associate violates one of the Major Standards of Conduct, they are subject to immediate termination. 
The supervisor may suspend the associate pending investigation and review by the Human Resources Department.  
The Human Resources representative will notify the associate of which Standard of Conduct 
they violated and will take a statement from them and any witnesses, if present, that observed the action. When possible, have a witness sign the appropriate column on the Corrective Action form. In the eve nt 
of termination, the associate will be paid any wages due in accordance with the appropriate State Payday 
Law.
 
 
In the event an associate is perceived to be inappropriately terminated, the associate has the right and 
responsibility of filing a grievance,  following the Grievance Procedure, with the Human Resource 
Department. The associate must make a statement in writing to the Human Resources Department within 3 days of termination. The Human Resources Department, in conjunction with the Executive team wi ll 
make a determination within 7 days of receipt of the grievance.
 
 
Grievance Procedure  
 
MD Billing  recognizes that there are times when the need arises for associates to express concerns or 
complaints in a formal manner. The following procedures will ensure that associates receive a fair and unbiased review of workplace concerns. Instances where this procedure may be effective includes harassment, inappropriate conduct, non- compliance or unreasonable disciplinary action/termination.
 
 
Procedures  
 
Step 1: In formal discussion with supervisor  
Associate concerns should first be discussed with the associate's immediate supervisor. Many concerns can be resolved informally when an associate and supervisor take time to review the concern and discuss 
options to address the issue.
 
 
 
Step 2: Written complaint to supervisor  
If the associate is not satisfied with the results of the informal discussion in Step 1, the associate may submit a written complaint within five days to his or her immediate supervisor to include:
    
 
70 
 The nature of the grievance.  
Detailed information including evidence of the issue, witnesses, related policies,  etc. 
The remedy or outcome  desired.  
 
The immediate supervisor will have five working days to respond to the associate in writing.  
If the associate complaint is regarding illegal harassment, discrimination or retaliation, the associate 
should submit the written complaint directly to Human Resources.  
 
 
Step 3: Written complaint to senior management  
If the associate is not satisfied with the response from the immediate supervisor, the associate may submit a written complaint to senior management for review. A copy should also be sent to Human 
Resources. The request for review should include:  
 
An explanation  of the grievance and details  of all previous  efforts to resolve the issue.  
A copy of the written complaint submitted to the immediate supervisor.  
A copy  of the immediate supervisor's written  response  to the associate's  complaint.  
Detailed information regarding the associate's  dissatisfaction  with the immediate  supervisor's 
response.  
 
Senior management will consult with the associate's immediate supervisor, Human Resources and any 
other relevant parties to evaluate the grievance and provide a written response to the associate wi thin 
five days. The outcome of the review by senior management will be final unless new evidence or other 
circumstances warrant additional review of the complaint.  
 
Recordkeeping  
Human resources will maintain records of the grievance process confidentially  and securely.  
 
Tobacco and Vape -Free Workplace Policy  
 
MD Billing  is concerned about the effect that smoking and secondhand smoke inhalation can have on its 
associates and clients. Smoking in the office, client areas, and restrooms is strictly prohibited. This policy 
includes traditional smoking and the use of alternate nicotine delivery system and electronic smoking 
devices such as e- cigarettes, e- pipe, e- hookahs, e- cigars or any such device.   
  
Smoking is prohibited except for in designated areas and on break or meal periods.   
 
Drug and Alcohol Policy  
 
MD Billing  consi ders drug and alcohol abuse a serious matter that will not be tolerated. The Company 
absolutely prohibits associates from using, selling, possessing, or being under the influence of illegal drugs, alcohol, or a controlled substance or prescription drug not  medically authorized while at their 
job, on Company property, or while on work time.
 
 
Therefore, it is the Company’s policy that:  
 
• You may not report  to work  under the inf luence  of alcohol,  illegal drugs,  or any controlled 
substance or prescription drug not  medically authorized.  
• You may not possess or use alcohol,  illegal drugs,  or any controlled substance  or prescription 
drug not medically  authorized while  on company  property  or on company  business.  
  
The Company also cautions against the use of prescribed or over- the-counter medication, which can  
affect your ability to perform your job safely, or the use of prescribed or over- the-counter medication in 
a manner violating the recommended dosage or instructions from the doctor. You must have a valid    
 
71 
 prescription for any prescription medication used while working for the Company. Inform your 
supervisor prior to working under the influence of a prescribed or over- the-counter medication that may 
affect your ability to perform your job safely. If the Company determines that the prescribed or over-the-count er medication does not pose a safety risk, you will be allowed to work. Failure to comply with 
these guidelines concerning prescription or over -the-counter medication may result in disciplinary 
action, up to and including termination of employment.  
 
Substa nce Abuse Policy  
 
Associate drug abuse has become a major problem for employers. A person who abuses substances endangers not only him or herself but also endangers everyone they encounter. This company has an obligation to ensure a drug and alcohol -free workplace. To satisfy our obligation to provide a drug and 
alcohol -free workplace, mandatory testing may be required in the following circumstances:
 
 
• Whenever a supervisor observes an individual behaving in a suspect  manner  
• Whenever a person is involved in an incident or  accident  
• Randomly at the discretion of management  
• When associate returns to work after recovering f rom a workplace injury.  
 
Drug testing will be done at company expense. The associate being tested may indicate any 
medications or legal substances being taken which might influence the outcome of the test. Results of 
the test will only be received by the company’s representative/officer. An associate whose test results are positive for drugs, alcohol, or other hazardous substances will be immediately terminated.
 
 
Explanation of Terms:  
Legal Drugs: Legal drugs include alcohol, medications prescribed by a physician, and over -the- 
counter medications. The Company prohibits the abuse of such drugs to the extent that job performance or fitness f or duty is adversely affected.
 
 
Illegal Drugs : Illegal drugs include those controlled substances and inhalants under federal or state 
law, which are not authorized for sale, possession or use and legal drugs, which are obtained or 
distributed illegally. Th e manufacture, use, possession, sale, purchase or transfer of illegal drugs by an 
associate is prohibited. Arriving on company property with the presence of drugs or alcohol in an 
associate’s blood stream is prohibited and will result in immediate terminat ion. 
 
Medical Standards : Medical standards for employment purposes include physical ability to  
perform essential job functions with no detectable levels of illegal or prohibited substances in the body.  
 
Testing of Applicants: All applicants being considered for employment will be drug - tested as part of the 
pre-employment process. Applicants will be required sign the Pre- Employment Applicant Statement – 
Background Check, Drug Screen Test, & Reference Check Consent and Release of Liability Form. Refusal on the part of an applicant to sign the release form or submit to the pre- employment 
consideration will result in the applicant no longer being considered for employment.
 
 
The applicant’s ability to meet the Company’s medical standards will be transmitted directly to the human resource department who will keep the results strictly confidential. If an applicant’s test is positive, they will not be considered for employment at that time and will be informed that they have failed to meet the medical stan dards.
 
     
Testing of Associate – Selection Procedures:  
 
For Cause Testing: Current associates will be asked to submit to a test if cause exists to indicate that    
 
72 
 their health or ability to perform work may be impaired. Factors, which could establish cause, include, 
but are not limited to:  
 
• Sudden change in work  performance  
• Repeated failure to follow instructions or operating procedures  
• Violation of company safety  policies  
• Involvement in an accident or near- accident  
• Discovery  or presence of substances  in an associate’s  possession  or at the associate’s 
workstation  
• Odor  of alcohol  and/or  residual  odor  peculiar to some  chemical  or controlled substance  
• Unexplained and/or frequent  absenteeism  
• Personality changes or disorientation  
• Arrest  or conviction for violation  of a criminal drug statute  
 
If a supervisor, the human resource department, and/or the management believes cause exists or has a reasonable suspicion that an associate may be impaired or using substances, these findings and observations will be documented, and the associate will be sent for the drug screen test. If the result of this is positive the associate will be terminated immediately.
 
 
Customer Substance Abuse Testing: All associates who have access to customer facilities who have 
contractor  or vendor  substance abuse programs  will be requested to submit  to a drug test in 
compliance with those customer programs.  
 
Post -Accident Testing : All associates involved in reportable accidents will be drug -tested for the use 
of controlled substances  as soon as possible  after  the reportable accident.  Any associate who is 
seriously injured and cannot provide a specimen at the time of the accident shall provide the 
necessary authorization for obtaining hospital records and other documents that would indicate 
whether there were any controlled  substances  in the associate’s  system.  Positive  drug tests  following  
an on the-job injury  will result in immediate  termination.  
 
Return- to-Service -Post-Rehabilitation Testing: Associates who return to service after time away from 
employment with the company will be required to submit to drug testing. At that point, if their drug test result is positive, they will be terminated immediately.
 
 
Other Testing Programs: Associates may be required to submit to drug testing when required by 
federal or state law, regulation or by contracted obligation not otherwise anticipated by provision of t his 
policy. In the event that other drug testing is required, every effort will be made to coordinate new testing
 
requirements with the company’s other drug testing provisions.  
 
Testing of Associates – Test and Post -Test Procedure: A laboratory chosen by the company will do all 
testing.  
 
Searches  
At the request of the human resource department, based upon suspicions or evidence of sale, possession or use of controlled substances, an associate shall be required to:
 
 
Submit  to the search  of his or her person  and/or  any personal  article  brought  upon Company premises  
Submit to seizure of any controlled substance found in the associate’s possession. Suspected illegal 
substances will be turned over to the appropriate law enforcement authorities. The associate will be 
required to furnish  the Company  with a physician’s  name and/or  prescription for confirmation of the 
prescription of a legal  substance found  in the associate’s  possession.  
Submission  to a personal  search of personal  articles  as used above  shall  include the search of any 
vehicle brought upon Company premises, Company worksites or used on Company business. A 
personal search also includes a search of items within the associate’s work area, including clothing.  
Failure to submit to a search will result in  termination.     
 
73 
  
Disciplinary Action  
Any associate engaging in the use of alcohol  while  on Company  property,  Company  worksites  or while  
on Company  business,  or who reports  for duty under  the effects  of alcohol  will be required  to undergo 
a drug screen test. If the test result is positive the associate will be terminated immediately. Any 
associate engaged in the possession, purchase, sale or transfer of any illegal drug while on Company 
property, Company worksites, or while on Company business will be terminated immediately and will 
also be subject  to criminal  investigation and/or  prosecution.  Any associate engaged  in the use of any 
illegal drug while on Company property, Company worksites or while on Company business will be 
required to take the drug screen test. If the test is positive the associate will be terminated 
immediately and may be subject to criminal investigation, and/or prosecution. If an associate is 
arrested or convicted for driving under  the influence  or for violation  of a criminal  drug statute,  the 
company  will thoroughly  investigate all of the circumstances and may utilize the drug testing procedure 
if cause is established by the investigation. If drug test is positive, the associate will be terminated 
immediately. If the drug test is negative, and after the investigation has been completed, the Company 
will determine the best course of action to be undertaken for the benefit of the Company and the 
individual. At this point, the associate may be disciplined up to and including termination, depending 
on the circumstances. If an associate is convicted for violation of a criminal drug statute in the 
workplace, the associate must notify the human resource department within f ive days of conviction. 
Associates convicted of violating criminal drug statutes in the workplace will be terminated 
immediately.  
 
Criminal Activity/Arrests  
 
Involvement in criminal activity, whether on or off Company property, during employment may result in 
disciplinary action including suspension or termination of employment. Disciplinary action depends 
upon a review of all factors involved, including whether or not the associate’s action was work -related, 
the nature of the act, or circumstances which adversely affect attendance or performance. Any 
disciplinary action is not dependent upon the disposition of any case in court.  
 
Associates are expected to be on the job, ready to work, when scheduled. Inability to report to work as 
scheduled as a result of an arrest may lead to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of 
employment, for violation of the attendance policy or job abandonment.  
 
Any disciplinary action taken will be based on information reasonably available. This information may come from witnesses, police, or any other source, as long as management has reason to view the source as credible.
 
 
Closing Statement  
 
Thank you for reading our associate handbook. We hope it has provided you with an understanding of the Company’s mission, history, and structure as well as our current policies and guidelines. We look forward to working with you to create a successful company and a safe, productive, and pleasant 
workplace.
 
 
 
Rodney Franklin MD, MBA  
Chief Executive Office