   
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Associate  Handbook  
 
 
 
 
 July 2023 Version  
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
Welcome!  
 
 
You have just joined a dedicated organization. We hope that your employment with MD Billing  will be rewarding and challenging. We take pride in our associates as well 
as in the care and services we provide.  
 
Please take the time now to read this handbook carefully. Sign the acknowledgment to show that you have read, understand, and agree to the contents of this handbook, 
which sets out the basic rules and guidelines concerning your employment. This handbook supersedes any previously issued handbooks or policy statements dealing with the subjects discussed herein. The Company reserves the right to interpret, 
modify, or supplement the provisions of this handbook at any time. Modification to this handbook and/or the policies and procedures of the Company will be communicated to associates via memorandum and added as an addendum to the current handbook. Neither this handbook nor any other communication by a management representative or other, whether oral or written, is intended in any way to create a contract of employment. Please understand that no associate handbook can address every  
situation in th e workplace.
 
If you have questions about your employment or any provisions in this 
handbook, contact Human Resources.  
We wish you success in your employment here at MD Billing ! 
 
 
All the best,  
 
Rodney Franklin MD, 
MBA Chief Executive Officer MD Billing
    
 
   
 Acknowledgement of Receipt and Review  
I acknowledge receipt of the MD Billing  Associate Handbook and Summary of Employment 
Policies that covers many important Company policies, including, but not limited to:  
 
• Open Door  Policy  
• Communications  Policies  
• Equal  Employment  Opportunity  
Policy  • No Harassment  Policy  
• Leave Policies  
• Paid Time Off Policy  
I understand that it is my responsibility to familiarize myself with the handbook and all its 
contents.  
 
I understand that this handbook is intended to increase my understanding of how MD Billing  
likes to operate and what is generally expected of MD Billing  Associates; that this Summary 
is not all - inclusive, as it is impossible to put all such information in one booklet ; and that my 
location may have special requirements that are not covered by or which may supplement 
this Summary.  
 
I understand that this Summary does not create a promise, representation, or an express 
or implied contract of continued employment. MD Billing  retains the right to change these 
policies and benefits at any time, without advance notice, as it deems appropriate.  
 
I unde rstand MD Billing  has a separate and distinct Code of Business Conduct. I am 
responsible for familiarizing myself with the additional policies and guidelines found in the 
Code of Business Conduct.  
 
I understand that I have the right to terminate my employment at any time, for any reason 
with or without advance notice, and that MD Billing  has a similar right.  
 
I further understand that my status as an at -will Associate may be modified only if in writing, 
signed by me or my representative and an authorized Company representative.  
 
This handbook supersedes any previous handbook or policy statements, whether written or oral, issued by MD Billing .
 
 
If I have any questions about the content or interpretation of this handbook, I will contact the Human Resources Dep artment.
 
 
   _    
Signature    Position  
 
   _    
Printed Name   Date  
ee_00905e6014df467af_2938135 AI Integration Manager 
Austin Franklin 07/15/2024    
 
 Table of Contents  
Introduction  
Corporate Contact  Information  1 
Ethics Code  1 
 Mission Statement  2 
 Values  2 
 Goals  2 
Policies  and Practices  
Open Door  Policy  3 
Employment  at Will 3 
Disability Accommodation 3 
Pregnant Workers Fairness Act  4 
Religious  Accommodation  4 
Prohibiting Harassment  and Discrimination  5 
Policy Against Workplace Harassment                                          5 
Policy  Against  Violence  6 
Conflict  Resolution  7 
Alternative Dispute  Resolution  8 
Employment  Status  8 
Outside  Employment  8 
Personal  Data  Changes  9 
Personnel and Medical  Records  9 
Employment  Resignations  9 
Exit Interview  9 
Post -Employment  Reference Policy  9 
Compensation and Benefits  
Benefit  Policies          10  
Holiday  Observance                                                                     11 
Workers’  Compensation Insurance                                               11 
Unemployment  Compensation Insurance                                    11  
New Associates  and Introductory  Periods                                     1 2 
Clinical Associate Evaluations  and Assessments                         12 
Performance Improvement                                                            12 
Promotions                                                                                 13 
Pay Raises                                                                                     13 
Transfer                                                                                          13 
Workforce  Reductions  (Layoffs)     13 
Wage and Hours  Policies 14 
    
 
 Revenue Share Compensation  14 
Bonus Compensation  14 
Holiday Differential Compensation  14  
Work  Schedules  14 
Time  Keeping 14 
Rest and Meal  Periods  15 
Off-the Clock Work  15 
Overtime Authorization for Non-exempt  Associates  15 
Remote Work  Policy  16 
Travel  Time  Pay 17 
Travel  Expenses  17 
Business  Expenses  18 
Use of Company  Credit  Cards  19 
Pay Period  20 
Direct  Deposit  20 
Lost or Stolen  Paychecks 20 
Paycheck Deductions  21 
Payroll Advances  and Loans  21 
 
Attendance  and Leave   
Attendance Policy  21 
Paid Time  Off (PTO)  22 
Compensatory Time Off  26 
Emergency  Closings 27 
Bereavement  Leave  27 
Jury Duty  Leave  28 
Court Attendance and Witness  Leave  28 
Voting Leave  28 
Leave of Absence  28 
Safety and Compliance   
Employment  Requirements ftrrgfrrgr  45 
Job Descriptions  45 
Mandatory  Training 45 
Mandatory Certification and Licensure Requirements  45 
Safety  Policy  Statement  46 
Emergency  Procedures  46 
Safety  Enforcement  48 
Associate Injury and Claims  Reporting  49 
Return to Work  Policy  49 
Medical Treatment of Associates  50 
Health Insurance Portability & Accountability HIPAA  50    
 
 Protection of Property                                                                        51 
Intellectual  Property                                                                     5 1 
Telephone  Use 52 
Mail Use 52 
Company -Provided Mobile  Device  Policy  52 
Personal Mobile Device Use                                                              53  
Voicemail, Email, and Internet  Policy  53 
Social  Media  Policy  56 
Password Policy  and Requirements  57 
Computer Security and Copying  of Software  58 
Privacy and Right  to Inspect  58 
Vehicles, Equipment, Tools, or Uniforms  on Loan  59 
Off-Duty Use of Company Property  or Premises  59 
Driving Policy  59 
Personal  Appearance 62 
Solicitations and Distribution  63 
Visitors in the Workplace  64 
Company  Social  Events 64 
Third  Party  Disclosures 66 
Standards  of Conduct   
Disciplinary Process  66 
Standards  of Conduct  67 
Progressive  Discipline  68 
Immediate Termination  69 
Grievance Procedure  69 
Tobacco and Vape -Free Workplace Policy  70 
Drug and Alcohol  Policy 70 
Substance  Abuse Policy  71 
Criminal Activity/Arrests  73 
Closing Statement  73    
 
1 
 Introduction  
 
Corporate Contact Information  
If you need assistance with personnel issues, safety, or you have a question about employment 
matters; please contact the human resources department at:  
 
 
MD Billing  
5224 75th Street, Suite D Lubbock, TX 79424  
Phone (806) 712 -1096  
Fax (806) 771- 2093  
hr@MD Billing .com  
 
 
Please contact your supervisor or human resource director to determine availability and your eligibility for associate benefits. Your supervisor will give you your daily work instructions, performance reviews, recommend pay increases, and recommend hiring and termination. Your supervisor is also responsible
 
for worksite safety, discipline, and may issue warnings to correct behavior and safety issues. The 
supervisor may also assist with accident investigations. Supervisors are responsible for safety in their 
respective work areas. This includes safety training, safety equipment, enforcing safety procedures and providing discipline warnings for those who violate safety procedures or policy.  
   
 
 
Ethics Code  
 
MD Billing  will conduct its business honestly and ethically wherever operations are maintained. We 
strive to improve the quality of our services, products, and operations and will maintain a reputation for 
honesty, fairness, respect, responsibility, integrity, trust , and sound business judgment. Our managers 
and associates are expected to adhere to high standards of business and personal integrity as a 
representation of our business practices . 
 We expect that officers, directors, and associates will not knowingly misrepresent the Company and will not speak on behalf of the Company unless specifically authorized. The confidentiality of trade 
secrets, proprietary information, and similar confidential commercially -sensitive information (i.e. 
financial or sales records/reports, marketing or business strategies/plans, product or services 
development, customer lists, patents, trademarks, etc.) about our Company or operations, or that of our customers or partners, is to be treated with discretion and only be disseminated on a need- to-know 
basis (see policies relating to privacy).
 
 
Violation of the Code of Ethics can result in discipline, up to and including termination of employment. The degree of discipline imposed may be influenced by the existence of voluntary disclosure of any ethical violation and whether or not the violator cooperated in any subsequent investigation.  
 
    
 
      
 
2 
  
 
Mission Statement 
 
 
To empower our team and partners to provide compassionate, individualized care, 
education and research for communities we serve.   
 
  
Values: HEALED 
 
Humility  
 
Excellence 
 
Accountability  
 
Loyalty  
 
Education  
 
Diversity  
   
Goals  
 
Excellent patient outcomes and satisfaction through multidisciplinary collaboration and innovative clinical stewardship.    
 Timely and accurate communication across the healthcare continuum.   
 Pursue high levels of alignment to achieve common goals with our partners.   
 Create a corporate culture that fosters team member engagement and personal satisfaction.   
 Deliver effective educational programs that advance and promote professional growth and development.  
 Contribute to the body of knowledge through high quality clinical research.   
       
 
3 
  
Policies and Practices  
Open Door Policy  
 
We welcome suggestions for continued improvement and ideas for better ways to perform your job, 
produce or sell the products or services of our Company, or meet customer and client ne eds. Discuss 
your ideas with your supervisor or another member of the management team.  
 
We also encourage you to offer any suggestions derived from seminars, journals , or other outside 
sources of information you believe would add value to the Company.  
 
Understand that any suggestions, innovations, inventions, or other matter created by you on work time 
or with Company tools or property are considered to be the property of the Company.  
 
Employment At -Will 
 
Your employment with MD Billing  is on an “at -will” basis. This means your employment may be 
terminated at any time, with or without notice, and with or without cause. Likewise, we respect your 
right to leave the Company at any time, with or without notice and with or without cause.  
 
Nothing in this associate handbook or any other Company document should be understood as creating a contract, guaranteed or continued employment, a right to termination only “for cause,” or of any other guarantee of continued benefits or employment. Only the Chief Executive Officer has the authority to 
make promises or negotiate with regard to guaranteed or continued employment, and any such 
promises are only effective if placed in writing and signed by the Chief Executive Officer.
 
 
Disability Accommodation  
 
MD Billing  complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), the Pregnancy Discrimination Act, 
and all applicable state and local fair employment practices laws and is committed to providing equal 
employment opportunities to qualified individuals with disabilities (including pregnancy -related 
disabilities). Consistent with this commitment, the Company will provide reasonable accommodation to 
disabled associates if the reasonable accommodation would allow the individual t o perform the 
essential  
functions of the job, unless doing so would create an undue hardship.  
If you require accommodation  because of your disability, notify your manager, supervisor, etc. When 
making your request for an accommodation, make sure to include relevant information, such as:  
 
• A description of the proposed  accommodation.  
 
• The reason you need accommodation . 
 
• How the accommodation  will help you perform  the essential  functions  of your job 
 
After receiving your request, the Company will engage in an interactive dialogue with you to determine the precise limitations of your disability and explore potential reasonable accommodations that could overcome those limitations. The Company encourages you to suggest specific reasonable accommodations that yo u believe would allow you to perform your job. However, the Company is not 
required to make the specific accommodation requested by you and may provide an alternative accommodation, to the extent any reasonable accommodation can be made without imposing an undue hardship on the Company.  
 
     
 
4 
 Pregnant Worker Fairness Act  
 
As required by the federal Pregnant Workers Fairness Act (PWFA), MD Billing  will provide reasonable 
accommodations to employees and applicants with limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth or related 
medical conditions, unless the accommodation will cause undue hardship to MD Billing ’ operations.  
 An associate may request accommodation due to pregnancy, childbirth or a related medical condition by 
submitting the request in writing to human resources (HR). The accommodation request should include an 
explanation of the pregnancy -related limitations, the accommodation needed and any alternative 
accommodation(s) that might be reasonable. Depending on the nature of the accommodation, the individual 
may be requested to submit a statement from a health care provider substantiating the need for the accommodation.  
 Upon receipt of a request for accommodation, HR will contact the associate to discuss the request and 
determine if accommodation is reasonable and can be provided without significant difficulty or expense, i.e., undue hardship.  
 
While the reasonableness of each accommodation request will be individually assessed, possible accommodations include allowing the individual to:  
 
• Sit while working.  
• Drink water during the workday.  
• Receive closer -in parking.  
• Have flexible hours.  
• Receive appropriately sized uniforms and safety apparel.  
• Receive additional break time to use the bathroom, eat and rest.  
• Take time off to recover from childbirth.  
• Be excused from strenuous activities and/or activities that involve exposure to compounds deemed unsafe during pregnancy.  
 
An associate may request paid or unpaid leave as a reasonable accommodation under this policy; however, 
MD Billing  will not require an associate to take time off if another reasonable accommodation can be 
provided that will allow the associate to continue to work.  
 MD Billing  prohibits any retaliation, harassment or adverse action due to an individual's request for 
accommodation under this policy or for reporting or participating in an investigation of unlawful discrimination under this policy.  
 
Religious Accommodation 
 
MD Billing  is dedicated to treating the religious diversity of all our associates equally and with respect. 
Associates may request accommodation  when their religious beliefs cause a deviation from MD Billing ’ 
dress code, schedule, basic job duties, or other aspects of employment. The Company will consider the request but reserves the right to offer its own accommodation to the extent permitted by law. Some, but not all, of the factors that the Company will consider are cost, the effect that accommodation will 
have on current established policies and the burden on operations, including other associates, when 
determining a reasonable accommodation. At no time will the Company question the validity of a person’s belief.
 
 
Religious accommodation requests must be submitted to your immediate supervisor or the human 
resources department.  
 
The Company will not discriminate or retaliate against any associate for requesting accommodation.  
 
    
 
5 
 Prohibiting Harassment and Discrimination 
 
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 applies to employers with 15 or more associates. The law 
prohibits discrimination in employment on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, or sex. Sexual harassment is a form of sex discrimination that violates Title VII. Under existing Title VII case 
law, employers may reduce their exposure to liability under Title VII by establishing, disseminating, and
 
enforcing an anti -harassment policy and complaint procedure.  
 
Equal Opportunity Statement  
 
MD Billing  is committed to the principles of equal employment. We are committed to complying with all 
federal, state, and local laws providing equal employment opportunities, and all other employment laws and regulations. It is our intent to maintain a work environment which is free of harassment, discrimination, or retaliation because of sex, gender, race, religion, color, national origin, physical or 
mental disability, genetic information, marital status, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, military 
service, veteran status, or any other status protected by federal, state, or local laws. MD Billing  is 
dedicated to the fulfillment of this policy in regard to all aspects of employment, including but not limited to recruiting, hiring, placement, transfer, training, promotion, rates of pay, and other compensation, termination, and all other terms, conditions, and privileges of employment.
 
 
MD Billing  will conduct a prompt and thorough investigation of all allegations of discrimination, 
harassment, or retaliation, or any violation of the Company’s Equal Employment Opportunity Policy in a 
confidential manner. The Company will take appropriate corrective action, if and where warranted. The Company prohibits retaliation against any associate who provides information about, complains, or assists in the investigation of any complaint of discrimination or violation of the Company’s Equal Employment Opportunity Policy.
 
 
We are all responsible for upholding the Company’s Equal Employment Opportunity Policy and any claimed violations of that policy should be brought to the attention of the human resource personnel.  
 
Policy Against Workplace Harassment  
 
MD Billing  has a strict policy against all types of workplace harassment, including sexual harassment 
and other forms of workplace harassment based upon an individual’s sex, gender, race, religion, color, national origin, physical or mental disability, marital status, age, sexual orientation, gender identity or any other status protected by federal, state or local laws. All forms of harassment of, or by, associates, vendors, visitors, customers, and clients are strictly prohibited and will not be tolerated.
 
 
Sexual H arassment  
 
Sexual harassment is defined as unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when (1) submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly as a term or condition of an individual’s employment (2) submission to, or 
rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for employment decisions
 
affecting such individual or (3) such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment.
 
 
While it is not possible to identify each and every act that constitutes or may constitute sexual harassment, the following examples of sexual harassment are provided below: (a) unwelcome 
requests for sexual favors; (b) lewd or derogatory comments or jokes; (c) comments regarding sexual behavior or the body of another associate; (d) sexual innuendo and other vocal activity such as catcalls or whistles; (e) obscene letters, notes, emails, invitations, photographs, cartoons, articles, or other written or pictorial materials of a sexual natures; (f ) repeated requests for dates after being informed that interest is unwelcome; (g) retaliating against an associate for refusing a sexual advance or reporting an incident of possible sexual harassment to MD Billing  or any government agency; (h) 
offering or providing favors or employment benefits such as promotions, favorable evaluations,    
 
6 
 favorable assigned duties or shifts, etc., in exchange for sexual favors; and  
(i) any unwanted physical touching or assaults or blocking or impeding movements.  
 
Other Harassment  
 
Other workplace harassment is often verbal or physical conduct that insults or shows hostility or 
aversion towards an individual because of the individual’s sex, gender, race, religion, color, national 
origin, physical or mental disability, marital status, age, sexual orientation, or any other status protected by federal, state, or local laws.
 
 
Again, while it is not possible to list all the circumstances that may constitute other forms of workplace harassment, the following are some examples of conduct that may constitute workplace harassment: (a) the use of disparaging or abusive words or phrases, slurs, negative stereotyping, or threatening, intimidating or hostile acts that relate to the above protected categories; (b) written or graphic material that insults, stereotypes or shows aversion or hostility towards an individual or group because of one of the above protected categories and that is
 
placed on walls, bulletin boards, email, voicemail, or elsewhere on the Company’s premises, or  
circulated in the workplace; and (c) a display of symbols, slogans, or items that are associated with hate or intolerance towards any select group.
 
 
Reporting Discrimination and Harassment  
 
Any associate who feels that they have witnessed, or been subject to, any form of discrimination or harassment is required to immediately notify their supervisor and the Human Resources direct or.
 
 
The Company prohibits retaliation against any associate who, based on a reasonable belief, provides 
information about, complains, or assists in the investigation of any complaint of harassment or 
discrimination.  
 
We will promptly and thoroughly investigate any claim and take appropriate action where we find a claim has merit. Discipline for violation of this policy may include, but is not limited to reprimand, 
suspension, demotion, transfer, and discharge. If the Company determines that harassment or 
discrimination occurred, corrective action will be taken to effectively end the harassment. As 
necessary, the Company may monitor any incident of harassment or discrimination to assure the inappropriate behavior has stopped. In all cases, the Company will follow up as necessary to ensure no retaliation for making a complaint or cooperating with an investigatio n. 
 
Policy Against Violence  
 
As the safety and security of our associates, vendors, contractors, and the general public is in the best 
interests of MD Billing , we are committed to working with our associates to provide a work environment 
free from violence, intimidation, and other disruptive behavior.  
 
Zero -Tolerance Policy  
The Company has a zero- tolerance policy regarding workplace violence and will not tolerate acts or 
threats of violence, harassment, intimidation, and other disruptive behavior, either physical or verbal, that occurs in the workplace or other areas. This applies to management, co -workers, associates, and 
non- associates such as contractors, customers, and visitors.
 
 
Workplace violence can include oral or written statements, gestures, or expressions that communic ate 
a direct or indirect threat of physical harm, damage to property, or any intentional behavior that may 
cause a person to feel threatened.  
 
 
 
    
 
7 
 Prohibited Conduct  
Prohibited conduct includes, but is not limited to:  
• Physically injuring another  person.  
• Threatening  to injure  a person  or damage property  by any means,  including  verbal,  written,  
direct, indirect, or electronic  means.  
• Taking any action to place  a person  in reasonable fear of imminent  harm  or offensive  contact.  
• Possessing,  brandishing,  or using  a f irearm  on Company  property  or while  performing 
Company business except as permitted by state  law. 
• Violating  a restraining  order,  order of protection,  injunction against  harassment,  or other  court  
order.  
 
Reporting Incidents of Violence  
Report to your manager, supervisor, or Human Resources, in accordance with this policy, any behavior 
that compromises the Company's ability to maintain a safe work environment. All reports will be  
investigated immediately and kept confidential, except where there is a legitimate need to know. You 
are expected to cooperate in any investigation of workplace violence.  
 
Violations  
Violating this policy may subject you to criminal charges as well as discipline up to and including 
immediate termination of employment.  
 
Retaliation  
Victims and witnesses of workplace violence will not be retaliated against in any manner. In addition, you will not be subject to discipline for, based on a reasonable belief, reporting a threat, or for cooperating in an investigation.
 
 
If you initiate, participate, are involved in retaliation, or obstruct an investigation into conduct prohibited 
by this policy, you will be subject to discipline, up to and including termination.  
 
If you believe you have been wrongfully retaliated against, immediately report the matter to Human 
Resources.  
Conflict Resolution 
 
The Company subscribes to the open -door policy. You may bring a complaint to your supervisor for 
resolution. When matters cannot be handled on an informal basis, the Company has established a 
formal procedure for a fair review of any work -related controversy, dispute, or misunderstanding. A 
complaint may be brought by one or more associates concerning any work -related problem where the 
complaint has not been satisfactorily resolved in an informal  manner.  
 
Step 1 : The complaint must be submitted in writing to the human resources department within three (3) 
working days of the incident. A written request for a meeting must be submitted simultaneously. Generally, a meeting will be held within seven (7) business days  of the associate’s request depending 
upon scheduling availability. Witnesses will be allowed as necessary. If the problem is not resolved during this meeting, the human resources department will give the associate a written resolution within 
seven (7) business days from the day the meeting of all related parties is held. If the associate is not satisfied, the associate may proceed to Step 2.
 
 
Step 2 : If the associate is not satisfied after Step 1, the associate may submit a written request for 
review of the complaint and Step 2 solution to the Chief Operating Officer (COO) or designee. Such a request must be made within three (3) working days following the receipt of the Step 1 resolution. The COO or appointed representative will review the complaint and proposed solution and may call a further meeting to explore the problem. This meeting is to be attended by the associate concerned, the 
associate’s immediate supervisor, and any other associate of the Company whom the aggrieved 
associate chooses. The COO or appointed representative will render the final decision within ten (10) 
business days after receiving the Step 2 request, assuming scheduling availability. The decision will be    
 
8 
 given to the associate in writing and will become part of the associate's personnel file.  
 
Alternative Dispute Resolution  
 
MD Billing  is committed to providing the best possible working conditions for its associates. Part of this 
commitment is encouraging an open and frank atmosphere in which any problem, complaint, 
suggestion, or question receives a timely response from supervisors and management. MD Billing  
strives to ensure consistent and honest treatment of all associates, supervisors, and managers. All  
associates are expected to treat each other with mutual respect. Associates are encouraged to offer positive and constructive criticism.
 
 
Problems, disputes, or claims not resolved through the preceding problem resolution steps are subject to mediation. Mediation will be conducted in accordance with the Alternate Dispute Resolution (ADR) 
guidelines under Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services (JAMS) Minimum Standards of Procedural Fairness of Employment, and under the JAMS Arbitration Rules and Procedures.
 
 
Associates who choose to use mediation to resolve a problem will be expected to share the cost of mediation. A complete description of the Alternate Dispute Resolution is available from the human resource director for review. If you need assistance on personnel matters, employments issues, or have a complai nt, feel free to c ontact  the human resource department.
 
 
Employment Statu s 
 
Regular Full -Time Status  
A regular full -time associate is an associate who has completed his or her introductory period and is 
regularly scheduled to work 30 hours per week. Unless  stated otherwise, all the benefits provided to 
associates are for regular full -time associates only. This includes vacation, holiday pay, health 
insurance, and other benefits coverage.  
 
Regular Part -Time Status  
Any associate who works less  than 30 hours  per week is considered a part -time associate. Part -time 
associates are not eligible for Company benefits unless specified otherwise in this handbook or in the 
benefit plan summaries.  
 
PRN Status  
Any associate who works on an as needed basis with no regularly scheduled hours. PRN associates 
are not eligible for Company benefits unless specified otherwise in this handbook or in the benefit plan summaries.
 
 
Temporary Status  
Any associate who is hired for a specific period of time, project or assignment. The associate is paid for actual hours worked and is not eligible for benefits. Associates hired for a specific project or period of time will not experience a change in status simply because they remain in employment for a longer period of time. An associate will change from temporary to regular status only if advised of such a 
change in writing from the human resource department.
 
 
 
Exempt Associates  
If you are classified as an exempt associate at the time of your hiring, you are not eligible for overtime 
pay as otherwise required by federal, state, or local laws. If you have a question regarding whether you 
are an exempt or non- exempt associate, contact your supervisor for clarification.  
 
Outside Employment  
 
Outside employment that creates a conflict of interest or affects the quality or value of your work  
performance or availability at the Company is prohibited. The Company recognizes that associates 
may seek additional employment during off hours, but in these cases, expects that any outside    
 
9 
 employment will not affect job performance, work hours, or scheduling, or otherwise adversely affect 
the associate’s ability to effectively perform their duties. Any conflicts should be reported to your 
supervisor. Failure to adhere to this policy may result in discipline up to and including termination.  
 
Personal Data Changes  
 
It is your obligation to provide the Company with all your current contact information, including current mailing address and telephone number. Please inform the Company of any changes to your marital or 
tax withholding status. Failure to do so may result in loss of benefits or delayed receipt of W -2 and 
other mailings.
 
 
Personnel and Medical Records  
 
The Company maintains a personnel and medical file for every associate. Medical records will be kept 
separately from other personnel files. Every effort will be made to keep your personnel and medical records confidential. Access is on a “need- to-know” basis only. This includes, but is not limited to, 
supervisors and others in management reviewing the file for possible promotion, transfer, or layoff.
 
 
If an associate wishes to review his or her personnel or medical file, they may do so after giving the Company reasonable notice. Inspection must occur in the presence of a Company representative. All 
requests by an outside party for information contained in your personnel file will be directed to the Human Resources department, which is the only department authorized to give out such information.
 
 
 
Employment Resignations  
 
If you find it necessary  to resign, you may be required  to give advance notice  in writing  to your 
supervisor indicating the last day you will be working. MD Billing  requires 14 days for associates, 30 
days for management  and 90 days  for providers,  notice  to be given  in order for the associate to have 
left in good standing. Associates will not be granted Paid Time Off during their notice period. Final 
paychecks for associates who quit without notice will receive final pay  within the State required time 
period after the associate has notified MD Billing  their intent not to continue working.  
 
Exit Interview  
 
You may be asked to participate in an exit survey  when you leave the Company. The purpose of the 
exit survey  is to provide management with greater insight into your decision to leave employment, 
identify any trends requiring attention or opportunities for improvement, and to assist the Company in 
developing effective recruitment and retention strategies. Your cooperation in the exit survey  process is 
valued and appr eciated.  
 
Post -Employment Reference Policy  
 
Our Company policy is to provide prospective employers with references only for associates who have 
worked for the Company within the past three years.  
 
We will provide prospective employers with the dates of employment and final job position of a former associate. All references are to be given by Human Resources only.
 
 
If the former associate is requested to provide a prospective employer with additional information by way of reference, the associate must sign a form that holds the Company and the prospective employer harmless from any claims related to any information provided in response to that reference. 
 
 
     
 
10 
 Compensation and Benefits  
Benefit Policies  
 
Health Insurance  
The Company provides its regular full -time associates who have completed 60 days of employment 
with health insurance availability. Associates have the option of dependent coverage at their own 
expense.  
 
Medical plan benefits for eligible associates and their dependents are described in detail in the Summary Plan Description (SPD) that is available to all eligible associates. These benefits may be canceled or changed at the discretion of the Company, unless otherwise required by law.
 
 
Health benefits during approved medical leaves are maintained by the Company on the same terms as 
if the associates continued to work. Please contact Human Resources for clarification. In such 
circumstances, arrangements must be made by eligible associates to pay their share of the healt h 
insurance premium on a monthly basis to maintain insurance coverage. Please contact the Human 
Resources Department to determine the amount of your contribution. The Company’s obligation to 
maintain health benefits stops when:  
 
• An associate informs  the Company  of an intent  not to return  to work  at the end of the leave 
period;  or 
• An associate fails to return to work after 12 consecutive weeks of absence: or 
• An associate’s premium contribution is past due. 
 
The Company will be entitled to recover premiums paid to maintain health insurance coverage for an 
associate who fails to return to work from leave.  
 
Please understand that plan eligibility does not necessarily mean coverage for all medical treatments 
or procedures. In addition, under certain circumstances, such as annual benefit enrollment, you may 
be responsible for contributing to the cost of increased premiums. This benefit, as well as other 
benefits, may be canceled or changed at the discretion of the Company, unless otherwise required by 
law. 
 
If you or a dependent become ineligible for benefits due to a change in work hours, or through a life event, or you terminate employment with us, you may have the right to continue your medical benefits 
under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA). The Company will mail you 
information about your COBRA rights.
 
 
Life Insurance  
All regular full- time associates who have completed 60 days of employment are eligible for life 
insurance provided by the Company. You will be required to notify the benefits administrator of your 
intended  
beneficiary. Refer to the Summary Plan Description (SPD) for details about the benefit.  
 
Dental Insurance  
All regular full -time associates who have completed 60 days of employment are eligible for the 
Company dental plan. Dental plan benefits are described in detail in the Summary Plan Description 
(SPD).  
 
Vision Care Insurance  
All regular, full -time associates who have completed 60 days of employment are eligible for the 
Company vision care plan. Vision care plan benefits are described in detail in the Summary Plan 
Description (SPD).  
    
 
11 
 COBRA  
The Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA) provides the opportunity for eligible 
associates and their beneficiaries to continue health insurance coverage under the company health plan when a “qualifying event” could result in the loss of eligibility. Qualifying events include resignation, termination of employment, death of an associate, reduction in hours, a leave of absence, divorce or legal separation, entitlement to Medicare, or where a dependent child no longer meets 
eligibility requirements. Please contact Human Resources to learn more about your COBRA rights . 
 
401(K) Plan  
All regular full -time associates who have completed at least 90 days of employment are eligible to  
participate in the Company’s 401K retirement plan. MD Billing  provides matching funds of 100% of the 
first three (3) percent of salary contribution and 50% of the second two (2) percent of salary contribution. Participants must be 21 years of age or older. As with your insurance benefits, please 
refer to your Summary Plan Description (SPD) provided by the benefits administrator for specifics. Should you have any other questions about pension or profit -sharing rights, please consult with the 
benefits administrator. This benefit, as well as other benefits, may be canceled or changed at the discret ion of the Company, unless otherwise required by law.
 
 
Holiday Observance  
 
MD Billing  observes the following holidays each year:  
 
• New Year’s  Day 
• Memorial  Day 
• Independence Day 
• Labor Day 
• Thanksgiving Day 
• Christmas  Day 
 
When a Company holiday falls on a Saturday, it will be observed the preceding Friday. Holidays falling on a Sunday will be observed the following Monday.
 
 
If a holiday falls on your regular day off, the holiday will be observed as your supervisor determines, on the associate’s last day of work before the holiday or the first day of work following the holiday.
 
Workers’ Compensation Insurance  
 
Workers’ compensation is a no- fault system designed to provide benefits to all associates for work 
related injuries. Workers’ compensation insurance coverage is paid for by the employer and governed 
by state law. The workers’ compensation system provides for coverage of medical treatment and 
expenses, occupational disability leave, rehabilitation services, as well as payment for lost wages du e 
to work  related injuries. If you are injured on the job, no matter how slightly, you are to report the 
incident immediately to your supervisor. Consistent with applicable state law, failure to report an injury within a reasonable period of time could jeopardize your claim for benefits.
 
 
To receive  workers’  compensation  benefits,  notify  your supervisor  immediately  of your claim.  If your 
injury is  the result  of an on-the-job accident,  you must f ill out an accident  report.  All work -related injuries  
require a drug screen. You will be required to submit a medical release before you can return to work . 
 
Unemployment Compensation Insurance  
 
Unemployment compensation insurance is paid for by the Company and provides temporary income for associates who have lost their job under certain circumstances. Your eligibility for unemployment 
compensation will, in part, be determined by the reasons for your separation from the Company.
 
 
    
 
12 
 New Associates and Introductory Periods  
 
The first ninety days of your employment is considered an introductory period. During this period, you 
will become familiar with MD Billing  and your job responsibilities. During this time, we will have the 
opportunity to monitor the quality and value of your performance and make any necessary adjustments in your job description or responsibilities. Your introductory period with the Company can be shortened or lengthened as deemed appropriate by management and Human Resources. Completion of this introductory  period does not imply guaranteed or continued employment. Nothing that occurs during or 
after this period should be construed to change the nature of the “at -will” employment relationship.
 
 
All new hires and current associates are required by federal law to verify their identity and eligibility to 
work in the United States. You will be required to complete federal Form I -9 on the first day of 
employment. If this form and verification of employment eligibility is not completed during the first three days of  employment, we are required by law to terminate your employment. If you are currently 
employed and have not complied with this requirement or if your status has changed, please inform 
your supervisor.
 
 
forms  will be maintained  separately  from personnel  f iles and retained according to the U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) retention requirements: I -9 forms should be retained for three years  
after the date of hire or one year after the date employment ends ---- whichever is later. Current 
associates should always have a Form I -9 on file.  
Clinical Associate Evaluations and Assessments 
 
All eligible associates are required to complete their 90-d ay clinical skills competency checklist before 
their initial 90 -day period ends. The associates who are not able to complete it in the stipulated time- 
period may be suspended without pay or terminated. Similarly, all eligible associates are required to 
complete their clinical skills competency checklist annually.  Associates who are not able to complete it 
in the stipulated time- period may be suspended without pay or terminated.  
 
Program Director(s) are required to turn in your 90- day clinical skills compet ency checklist before 60 
days of the associate’s initial period. The remaining 30 days can be utilized, if there is any discrepancy on associate’s part related to the clinical competency skills, to train the particular associate in order for them to develo p their clinical skill(s) competency in the respective area so that the 90- day clinical skills 
competency checklist can be completed by 90 days from the date of hire. Similarly, the Program 
Director(s) are required to turn in your Annual clinical skills competency checklist a month before the 
associate completes their anniversary with the company.
 
 
Associates will be evaluated on the basis of their performance for their 90- day introductory period (for 
new hires) and on an annual basis. The Program Director(s) is required to turn in the respective  
associate’s performance evaluation(s) to the human resource department before the associate’s 90 -
day 
and/or anniversary date.  
 
Associates will also be evaluated for the 90- day (new hires) AIDET, and annual AIDET competency. 
Program Director(s) are required to turn in the respective associates’ AIDET competency assessment(s) to the human resource department before the associate’s 90- day and/or anniversary 
date.  
Performance Improvement  
 
MD Billing  will make efforts to periodically review associates  work performance. The performance 
improvement process will take place on an as needed basis . Associates may specifically request that 
their supervisor assist in developing a performance improvement plan at any time.  
  
The performance improvement process is a means for increasing the quality and value work     
 
13 
 performance.  Initiative, effort, attitude, job knowledge, and other factors will be addressed. You must 
understand that a positive job performance review does not guarantee a pay raise or continued 
employment. Company pay raises and promotions are based on numerous factors, only one of which 
is job performance.  
 
Promotions  
 
Promotions may occur when:  
 
• A job opening is internally or externally advertised  
• A position  opens  unexpectedly,  and the Company  wishes  to f ill it f rom within  
• An associate has consistently  good  performance evaluations  and possesses  the attitude and 
leadership abilities that deem them ready for the next step in their career.  
• An associate acquires a credential (degree, licensure, etc.) that allows them to advance  
 
Promotions are made on an equal opportunity basis according to associates who possess the merit 
and desired skills, education, experience, and other qualifications required for the position. It is the 
Company’s policy to promote from within the Company when the most qualified candidate is available.  
All associates promoted into new job positions will undergo a 90- day introductory period as described 
in the New Associates and Introductory Periods section. However, such associates will continue to 
receive Company benefits for which they are eligible.  
 
The company  will use its best efforts  to match  each position  with the talent  most  suitable for the job. As 
a result,  an associate could be transferred to a new position  to ensure the best fit possible  for the 
associate and Company  needs.  
 
In accordance with our company policies, we will not tolerate promotions based on subjective opinions unsupported by performance evaluations, discrimination, favoritism, or nepotism. Managers must keep good documentation of their promotion evaluation process to avoid such incidents.
 
 
Pay Raises  
 
Depending on the Company’s financial health and other factors, efforts will be made to give pay raises consistent with Company profitability, job performance, and the consumer price index. MD Billing  may 
also make individual pay raises based on merit or due to a change of job position or duties assigned. 
Associates who are under corrective action are not eligible for a merit or cost -of-living wage increase.
 
 
Transfer  
 
MD Billing  may transfer your employment from one position to another with or without notice as 
required by production or service needs or upon request by an associate and management approval.  
Transfers in excess of 90 days may be considered final, and your paycheck may be increased or decreased consistent with the pay scale for your new position.
 
 
Workforce Reductions (Layoffs)  
 
If necessary, based upon the needs of the business, management may decide to implement a reduction in force (RIF). We acknowledge that RIFs can be a trying experience for management and associates alike, and the Company will make its best effort to make sound business decisions while acknowledging the needs of its workforce.
 
 
 
 
 
Wage and Hours Policies  
 
An associate’s pay depends on a wide range of factors, including pay scale surveys, individual effort,    
 
14 
 profits, and market forces. If you have any questions about your compensation, including matters such 
as paid time off, commissions, overtime, benefits, or paycheck deductions, please speak with your supervisor or Human Resources.
 
 
Revenue Share Compensation  
  
Revenue- based wage is compensation calculated based on payment received from professional services 
personally provided. Revenue- based compensation is paid semi -monthly in accordance with our current 
payroll schedule. Associates who have terminated employment, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, will receive payment of collections for an additional 30 days following the date of separation from the C ompany 
regardless of outstanding accounts receivable which may yet to be collected.  
  
Bonus Compensation  
  
Bonuses are monetary rewards outside of an associate’s usual pay or salary that they receive after meeting or exceeding certain performance expectat ions.  
  Bonus compensation calculations will occur on a quarterly basis, based upon a regular calendar year quarterly schedule.   Any such additional compensation due will be paid to within 30 days following the end 
of the prior quarter.  Associates must be employed at the time of the bonus payout to be eligible. Bonus 
compensation thresholds may be adjusted annually to account for inflation and adjusted at the same time 
associate cost of living adjustments are made (if any).  
 
Holiday Differential Compensation  
 
A hol iday differential of one -half the Associate’s hourly rate will be paid to all non- exempt Associates who 
work the actual day of any of the MD Billing  officially designated holidays: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, 
Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day  and Christmas Day.  
Working the Monday or Friday when the actual holiday falls on a weekend does not entitle the Associate to 
holiday pay.  
 
PROCEDURES  
• Managers/Directors should ensure only those Associates required/scheduled to work a holiday are on duty  and receiving the holiday differential.  
• Associates should clock in and out the same as a normal shift.  
• Holiday differential will be paid for time worked from 12 a.m. to 11:59 p.m. on the actual holiday. 
The differential is automatically calculated through the timekeeping system.  
 
Work Schedules  
 
All work schedules will be determined by your immediate supervisor.  
 
Time Keeping  
 
Federal and state laws require us to keep accurate records of hours worked by non- exempt (hourly) 
associates. You should clock in no more than five minutes ahead of time and clock out no later than 
five minutes after your quitting time. Every non- exempt associate of the Company is required to enter 
their hours worked accurately, including all lunch periods and any rest periods of more than 20 minutes.  
 
Associates are required to notify the company of any pay discrepancies, unrecorded or mis-recorded 
work hours, or any involuntary missed meal or break periods.  
 
Do not complete the time sheet of any other associate or request that they do so for you. Please be sure to indicate your days off. Any changes to your timecard must be approved of by your supervisor.
 
Timecard adjustments are to be initiated in the time keeping system within 24 hours of the discrepancy.     
 
15 
  
Falsification of time records or recording time for another associate may result in discipline, up to and 
including termination of employment.  
 
ALL hourly associates are required to clock in and out for the day and for lunch on a daily basis. It is the associate’s responsibility to check their punches daily to determine if there are any missed punches 
or discrepancies.
 
 
If an associate has a missed punch or discrepancy, they must submit a time adjustment to their 
supervisor within 24 hours of when the missed punch or discrepancy occurred. Supervisors must approve time adjustments. All time adjustments must be approved within 24 hours of receiving the request.
 
 
If for any reason the associate’s supervisor is absent, the associate must inform the Human Resourc es 
Department within 24 hours of when the missed punch or discrepancy occurred.  
 
Extenuating circumstances where an associate or supervisor is unable to meet the requirements of the policy will be managed on a case- by-case basis.  
 All associates, regardles s of position, are required to adhere to these guidelines. Failure to follow these 
guidelines will result in disciplinary action up to and including termination.
 
 
Rest and Meal Periods 
 
The Company strives to provide a safe and healthy work environment and complies with all federal and 
state regulations regarding rest and meal periods. Please check with your supervisor regarding 
procedures and schedules for rest and meal breaks. The Company requests that associates accurately 
observe and record meal and rest periods. If you know in advance that you may not be able to take your scheduled break or meal period, please let your supervisor know as soon as possible. If you did not know in advance but were unable to take a meal or rest break, please notify your supervisor as soon as possible.
 
 
Off The Clock Work  
 
Under the Fair Labor Standards Act, non- exempt associates must be paid for all hours worked.  
 
Performing any work -related tasks must only take place during assigned work periods while hours 
worked are being recorded. MD Billing  does not allow work to be performed outside of assigned work 
periods without pay to any non- exempt team members. Supervisor approval is required for all work 
outside of normal and/or beyond the 40- hour work week. Violation of this policy will result in disciplinary 
action up to and including termination of employment.  
 
Overtime Authorization for Non- exempt Associates  
 
If you are a non- exempt associate, you may qualify for overtime pay. All overtime must be approved in 
advance, in writing, by your supervisor.  
 
At certain times, the Company may require you to work overtime. We will attempt to give as much notice as possible in this instance. However, advance notice may not always be possible. Failure to work overtime when requested or working unauthorized overtime may result in discipline, up to and including termination of employment .
 
 
Overtime pay of one and one- half times an associate’s regular rate of pay or average pay rate (if you 
perform work at different pay rates during the relevant week) is paid for any hours worked in excess of 40 hours in a workweek. Holidays, Paid Time Off and other non- working leave days do not count as 
time worked for computing overtime.     
 
16 
  
Remote Work Policy  
 
Employees are permitted to work remotely occasionally or regularly, depending on a number of  factors and 
the arrangements they've made with their manager. Remote work is a privilege that may be revoked at any 
time. The Company may request that an employee be present in the office at any time (regardless of scheduled time) or deny a request to work remotely based on business needs, employee performance, or 
viability of doing the remotely. To be eligible, an employee must have access to reliable internet and a 
space that is free from excessive noise or distraction.  
 Submitting Requests  
Employees who do not have a remote work agreement in place must submit a remote work request in 
writing to their supervisor and notify appropriate team members. Requests for recurring or extended remote 
work arrangements will be considered on a case- by-case basis, or in the case of a public health emergency.  
 
Costs  
The Company will supply the employee with appropriate office supplies and reimburse the employee for all other reasonable business -related expenses. Employees must get pre- approval for expenses associated 
with working from home. Any equipment supplied by the Company is to be used for business purposes only, 
unless otherwise specified. Employees must take appropriate action to protect these items from damage or theft.  
 The Company is not responsible for costs associated with initial setup of the employee's home office such as remodeling, furniture or lighting, or for repairs or modifications to the home office space.  
 
Security  
As with employees working in the office, those who work remotely will be expected to ensure the protection 
of proprietary Company and patient information through use of locking doors, desks, file cabinets, and media storage, regular password maintenance, and any other steps appropriate for the job and the environment. Unless you live alone, computers should be locked when you walk away and other household members should not be allowed access to or use of Company property.  
 
Expectations  
When working remotely employees must: 
• Work their full, typical schedule  
• Attend all meetings in a virtual capacity  
• Achieve the same level of production as in the office  
• Maintain equivalent availability for colleague and client/patient communication, supervisor 
questions, etc.  
• Be available online and by phone for the duration of their usual workday, minus breaks periods  
• Respond promptly to communication via messaging app, email, and phone  
• Take all required break periods, as if they were in the office  
• Communicate consistently regarding their workload and status (break, lunch, working on a project, 
etc.) 
• Follow all company procedures and policies  
• Refrain from using alcohol or illegal drugs  
 
 
         
 
17 
 Travel Time Pay  
 
Some non- exempt positions within MD Billing  require travel. MD Billing  pays non- exempt associates for 
travel time in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). For purposes of this policy, the 
regular workday is 8:00 – 5:00 (Monday – Friday).  
 
Home to Work Travel  
An associate who travels from home before the regular workday and returns to his or her home at the end of the workday is engaged in ordinary home to work travel, which is not work time.
 
 
Home to Work on a Special One Day Assignment in Another City  
An associate who regularly works at a fixed location in one city is given a special one- day assignment 
in another city and returns home the same day. The time spent in traveling to and returning from the other city is work time, except that the employer may deduct/not count that time the associate would normally spend commuting to the regular work site.
 
 
Travel That Is All in a Day’s Work  
Time spent by an associate in travel as part of their principal activity, such as travel from job site to job site during the workday, is work time and must be counted as hours worked.
 
 
Travel Away from Home Community  
Travel that keeps an associate away from home overnight is travel away from home. Travel away from home is clearly work time when it cuts across the associate’s workday. The time is not only hours worked on regular working days during normal working hours but also during corresponding hours on 
nonworking days. MD Billing  will not consider as work time that time spent in travel away from home 
outside of regular working hours as a passenger on an airplane, train, boat, bus, or automobile.
 
 
Calculating and Reporting Travel Time  
Associates are responsible for accurately tracking, calculating, and reporting travel time. Travel time should be calculated by rounding up to the nearest quarter hour.
 
 
Travel Expenses  
 
Advances  
The Company does not generally provide cash travel advances. Normally, associates are expected to 
use personal credit cards and/or their own cash and submit their approved expenses.  
 
Travel Expenses  
The Company pays the actual amounts incurred for appropriate expenses when associates are on travel assignments. Examples of typical expenses include the following:
 
 
• Airline  tickets  
• Lodging  
• Car rental, bus, taxi, parking  
• Telephone and fax 
• Laundry and dry cleaning (trips exceeding one week only, unless  emergency)  
• Business supplies and services  
• Associated gratuities  
• Other expenses necessary to achieve the business  purposes  
 Per Diems  
The Company will pay a daily per diem rate for overnight travel which may be prorated by time of travel and meals provided by the company such as working lunches or business dinners.  
     
 
18 
 Air Travel  
Associates are to use economy or tourist class airfares when traveling on Company business. In 
addition, private, noncommercial aircraft or chartered aircraft is not to be used, and no more than two Company  officers should travel together on the same flight.
 
 
Airfares are to be charged to personal credit cards and subsequently turned in for reimbursement.  
 
Hotels  
Neither in- room movies nor refreshment bars are approved Company expenses.  
 
Insurance  
The Company does not pay for personal travel insurance for associates.  
 
Rental Cars  
Associates are to use rental firms having existing relationships with the Company and, where feasible, have negotiated discounts rates. Reasonable transportation available is to be used.  Vehicle class 
should accommodate only the business needs for travel, any reservation above the Standard class 
vehicle requires administrative approval. 
 
 
Personal Vehicles  
All associates  using  their own vehicle  for business  purposes  must  maintain  insurance coverage as 
required by law and may not have more than 2 points on their driving record. Travel between the 
associate’s home and primary office is not considered to be business travel. Associates are not 
authorized to use personal vehicles for business travel without authorization. Associates will be 
reimbursed for vehicle use at the current company rate. An executive officer must authorize any 
deviation from this policy.  
  
Travel to a temporary location within a metro area (50- mile radius from home site) will  not be subject to 
mileage reimbursement except in cases where the associate has reported to one location and has 
been requested to report to a separate location in the same day. The route chosen for reimbursement 
should be the shortest route available. If a company vehicle is available for such tr avel, associates 
should use a company vehicle. If a company vehicle is available and the associate chooses not to use it, no mileage reimbursement will be offered for that trip.
 
 
Associate Reporting  
Associates are to report their expenses  for approval through the appropriate reporting tools  and must 
include a description of the expense, its business purpose, date, place, and the participants.  
 
Business Expenses  
 
Approved business expenses are the reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by associates to 
achieve legitimate business purposes that are not covered by normal Company procurement processes.
 
 
All business expenses must be approved by your supervisor prior to occurrence.  
 
Business Meetings (Company-Sponsored Events and Meetings)  
The Company pays for expenses necessary to achieve a valid business purpose when meetings are 
held with customers, vendors, or other Company associates. The most senior Company associate present is to pay and report all expenses.
 
 
The Company will make every effort to have a master account set up for Company -wide and large 
group events. However, if you are at a small meeting or staying by yourself at a hotel, pay individually and submit for reimbursement accordingly.
 
    
 
19 
 Entertainment  
The Company pays for entertainment expenses only when they clearly benefit the Company and 
include customers and are promotional in nature. The most senior Company associate present is to pay and report all expenses.
 
 
Technical and Training Seminars  
In some instances, the Company pays for expenses associated with attendance at classes and seminars that enhance job - related skills. Prior approval must be obtained by the associate’s 
manager/supervisors and appropriate management.
 
 
Other Expenses  
The Company will pay for postage and telephone expenses that are for business purposes.  
 
Associate Reporting  
Associates are to report their approved expenses and must include a description of the expense, its business purpose, date, place, and the participants.
 
 
Use of Company Credit Cards  
 
The Company will issue company credit cards to certain associates for use in their jobs; this policy sets out the acceptable and unacceptable uses of such credit cards.
 
 
Use of company -issued credit cards is a privilege, which the Company may withdraw in the event of 
serious or repeated abuse. Any credit card the Company issues to an associate must be used for  
business purposes only, in conjunction with the associate’s job duties. Associates with such credit cards shall not use them for any non- business, non- essential purpose, i.e., for any personal purchase 
or any other transaction that is not authorized or needed to carry out their duties. Associates must pay for personal purchases (i.e. transactions for the benefit of anyone or anything other than the Company) with their own funds or personal credit cards.
 
 
The Company will not regard expenses for one's own business -related use, such as lodging and meals 
while on company -approved business trips, as personal purchases, as long as such expenses are 
consistent with the Company's travel and expense reimbursement policy.  
 
If any associate uses a company credit card for personal purchases in violation of this policy, the cost 
of such purchase(s) will be considered an advance of future wages payable to that associate and will 
be recovered in full from the associate’s next paycheck; any balance remaining will be deducted in full from subsequent paychecks until the wage advance is fully repaid. Such deductions may not take the  
associates  pay below minimum wage for the pay period(s) in question. If an associate uses a company 
credit card for any other type of unauthorized transaction in violation of this policy, i.e., incurs financial 
liability on the Company's part that is not within the scope of the associate’s duties or the associate’s 
authorization to make business -related purchases, the cost of such purchase(s) or transaction will be 
the financial responsibility of that associate, and the associate will be expected to reimburse the 
Company vi a deductions from pay until the unauthorized amount is fully repaid. Such deductions will 
be in the amount of the unauthorized purchase(s), but if a deduction for such amount would take the associate below minimum wage for the work week in question, the deductions will be in two or more 
equal increments that will not take the associate's pay below minimum wage for any work week 
involved.
 
 
In addition to financial responsibility and liability for wage deductions, any purchases an associate makes with a company credit card in violation of this policy will result in disciplinary action, up to and possibly including termination of employment, depending upon the severity and repeat nature of the 
offense.
 
 
Terms of use are as follows:  
    
 
20 
 1. Authorization – The owner  must  provide  written  authorization  prior  to the use of a company  credit 
card 
 
2. Associate  Agreement  – The associate must sign an agreement  acknowledging  that they have 
read and understood the policies and procedures governing the use of a company  credit.  
a. No personal or private expenditure shall be charged to a company  account  
b. No unapproved operating expense (e.g. monthly  telephone bills,  office  supplies,  etc.) 
shall be charged to the credit  card.  
c. Each expense charged must be accompanied by the actual itemized receipt and brief 
explanation.  (location,  who it was for, and approval  if necessary)  Each expense should 
have the same type of documentation that you would include on a request for 
reimbursement.  
d. An expense exceeding $50.00 should be pre-approved.  
e. Documentation of each expense is required as soon as possible, and no later than 7 
days  f rom the date of purchase.  The cardholder  is responsible for ensuring  ALL receipts 
are turned in by the end of each month. Expenses and receipts should be uploaded  using 
the Paycom  application.  
f. No cash advances will be permitted on a company credit  card.  
g. Any credit card issued to an associate will have a pre -set monthly  limit.  
 
3. Card Payments – Payments, late fees and interest related to unauthorized or undocumented 
charges shall be the responsibility of the associate.  
 
Violations of the MD Billing  credit card policy will result in disciplinary action, including termination of 
employment.  
 
Pay Period  
 
The standard pay period is semi -monthly for all associates. Pay dates are the 6th and the 21st of the 
month. Should any pay period fall on a holiday, you will be paid on the preceding workday. If a pay 
date falls on a Saturday or Sunday, paychecks will be issued on Friday prior to payday.  
 
All additional compensations are paid in accordance with the signed agreement in relation to that 
compensation.  
 
Direct Deposit  
 
We encourage all associates to enroll in direct deposit. If you would like to take advantage of direct deposit, associates may enter direct deposit information in the online payroll system. Typically, the 
bank will begin the direct deposit of your payroll immediately after you submit your completed information. If you have selected the direct deposit payroll service, a written explanation of your deductions can be printed from the online payroll system.
 
 
If you wish to decline enrollment in direct deposit, your paychecks will be mailed via the United States 
Postal Service to the address currently on file in the online payroll system.  
 
Lost or Stolen Paychecks  
 
If a check is lost or stolen a check replacement authorization form must be completed and received in the MD Billing  corporate office in order for a replacement check to be issued. A $ 35.00 Stop Payment 
fee and/or special handling charge may be applied dependent upon circumstances. The waiting period for a check lost in th e mail is (10) ten days from the check date and normal delivery by regular 1st 
class mail.  
 
 
    
 
21 
 Paycheck Deductions 
 
MD Billing  is required by federal, state, and certain local laws to withhold certain deductions from your 
paycheck. This includes income and unemployment taxes, and FICA contributions (Social Security and 
Medicare) as well as any other deductions required under law or by court order for wage garnishments. 
The amount of your tax deductions will depend on your earnings and the number of exemptions you list 
on your federal Form W- 4 and applicable state withholding form. You may also authorize voluntary 
deductions from your paycheck, including contributions for insurance premiums, retirement plans, spending accounts, or other services. Your deductions will be reflected in your wage statement. You may view these deductions at any time in the company’s online payroll system.
 
 
MD Billing  is authorized to deduct, within the limits of payroll laws, any amounts owed to the company 
upon termination of employment.  
 
Contact Human Resources for any questions about your paycheck.  
 
Payroll Advances and Loans  
 
MD Billing  will not advance wages or loan money to its associates. All requests for payroll advances or 
loans from the Company will be rejected.  
 
Attendance and Leave  
 
Attendance Policy  
 
The purpose of this policy is to set forth MD Billing ' policy and procedures for handling associate 
absences and tardiness to promote the efficient operation of the company and minimize unscheduled 
absences.  
 
Punctual and regular attendance is an essential responsibility of each associate at MD Billing . 
Associates are expected to report to work as scheduled, on time and prepared to start working. 
Associates also are expected to remain at work for their entire work schedule. Late arrival, early departure or other absences from scheduled hours are disruptive and must be avoided.
 
This po licy does not apply to absences covered by the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) or leave 
provided as a reasonable accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). These exceptions are described in separate policies.
 
 
Absence  
"Absence" is defined as the failure of an associate to report for work when they are scheduled to work. The two types of absences are defined below:
 
 
Excused absence occurs when all the following conditions are met:  
 
• The associate provides  to his or her supervisor  sufficient  notice at least  48 hours in  advance of 
the absence.  
• The absence request is approved in advance by the associate's  supervisor.  
• The associate has sufficient accrued paid time off (PTO) to cover the absence.  
 
Unexcused absence occurs when any of the above conditions are not met; all above conditions must 
be satisfied in order for the absence to be considered excused.  
 
• An associate who must call in the day of their shift must do so a minimum of two hours prior to 
the start of  their shift.  With exception of extenuating circumstances, do not contact  your 
supervisor between the hours  of ten o’clock pm and f ive o’clock  am. Associates  should call in 
to their supervisor  and leave a message for the Human Resources  department  as a backup.     
 
22 
 An unexcused  absence counts  as one occurrence for the purposes  of discipline  under this 
policy.  
• Associates with two or more consecutive days of unexcused absences because of illness or 
injury must give MD Billing  proof of physician's care and a fitness for duty release prior to 
returning to work.  
• Associates must take earned PTO for every absence unless otherwise allowed by company 
policy (e.g., leave of absence, bereavement, jury duty).  
 
Tardiness and Early Departures  
Associates are expected to report to work and return from scheduled breaks on time. If associates cannot report to work as scheduled, they must notify their supervisor no later than their regular starting 
time. This notification does not excuse the tardiness but simply notifies the supervisor that a schedule 
change may be necessary.
 
 
Associates who must leave work before the end of their scheduled shift must notify a supervisor 
immediately.  
 
Tardiness and early departures are each one- half an occurrence for the purpose of discipline under 
this policy.  
 
Disciplinary Action  
Excessive absenteeism is defined as two or more occurrences of unexcused absence in a 30 -day 
period or three or more occurrences in a 90- day period and will result in disciplinary action. Eight 
occurrences of unexcused absence in a 12- month period are considered grounds for termination.  
 
Occurrence  
Unscheduled absences that consist of 1- 3 consecutive calendar days missed or absent from work for 
the same illness/reason. For unscheduled absences in excess of 3 days the associate should consider 
requesting leave under a qualifying company leave policy (see Leave of Absence Policy).  
 
In the event an associate is forced to leave their scheduled shift early due to illness/emergency and then calls in for their shift in the following consecutive days, only one occurrence will be counted.  
 Associates who return to work after and unscheduled occurrence but then find that they are unable to perform their job duties due to the same illness/emergency may extend their unscheduled absence 
under the same occurrence.
 
 
Job Abandonment  
Any associate who fails to report to work for a period of one day or more without notifying his or her 
supervisor will be considered to have abandoned the job and voluntarily terminated the employment 
relationship. Associates who abandon their job will not be eligible for re- hire. 
 
Paid Time Off ( PTO)  
 
Purpose of Paid Time Off (PTO) 
The purpose  of Paid Time  Off (PTO)  is to provide associates  with  flexible  paid time off from work  
that can be used for such needs as vacation, holidays, personal or family illness, doctor 
appointments, school, volunteerism,  and other activities  of the associate's  choice.  The company's  
goal is to reduce unscheduled absences and the need for supervisory  oversight.  
 
Guidelines for PTO Use  
Associates are responsible for managing their PTO account. It is important to reserve time for holidays, vacations, doctors appointments, personal business, short -term illnesses and unexpected 
absences. Associates may not us e PTO hours before they are accrued and reflected in the payroll 
system.     
 
23 
  
Each full -time associate will accrue PTO semi -monthly in hourly increments based on their length of 
service as defined below. PTO is added to the associate's PTO bank when the semi -monthly 
paycheck is issued. PTO taken will be subtracted from the associate's accrued time bank in one-
hour increments.Only full -time associates are eligible for PTO accrual.  
 
Eligibility to accrue PTO is contingent on the associate either working or utilizing accrued PTO for 
the entire semi -monthly pay period. PTO accruals are adjusted down proportionally for pay 
periods during which unpaid leave, including disciplinary leave, short - or long- term disability leave 
or workers' compensation leave are taken.  
 
Associates may use time from their PTO bank in hourly increments. Time that is not covered by the 
PTO policy, and for which separate guidelines and policies exist, include bereavement time off, 
required jury duty, and military service leave.  
 
All PTO requests should be submitted throu gh Paycom at least twenty -one days in advance of the 
requested time off except when being requested for legitimate, unexpected illness or emergencies.  
In those  insta nces, the Asso ciate must  notify  his/her manager at least  two {2) hours  before the start 
of the Associ ate's  shift,or  accordi ng to departmental procedures,  except  in emergency  circumstances 
when such  contact  is not feas ible. In those  instances , notification shou ld take place  as soon as 
possible.  (Use the Paid Time Off online request system to request PTO.) In all instances, PTO must 
be approved by the associate's supervisor in advance. The Company appreciates as much notice as 
possible when you know you expect to miss work for a scheduled absence.  
 
Managers  should review  and approve/deny PTO  requests  within  the Paycom system  
on a daily  basis. Notification of the approval/deni al will be sent to the Associate email or 
Paycom push notification system. When  necessary,  if patient  safety  and care or critical  
business  operations will  be impac ted by the Associate's absence,  MD Billing  reserves  the right 
to cancel  approved PTO.  
 
Paid Time Off (PTO) Exceptions  
 
 
• Associates  who miss  two or more consecutive unscheduled days  may be required  to present  a 
doctor's release to the Human Resources department that permits them to return to work.  
 
• Newly -hired Associates will begin accruing PTO on their first day of employment, but they will 
not be able to use their PTO during the introductory period.   
 
• PTO taken in excess  of the PTO accrued can result  in progressive disciplinary  action  up to and 
including termination of employment. Time off in excess of accrued or advanced PTO will be 
unpaid.  The only possible  exception to this policy  must  be granted by the company  CEO.  
 
• PTO accrued prior to the start of a requested  and approved unpaid leave  of absence must  be 
used to cover hours missed before the start of the unpaid leave.  
 
• Unscheduled absences  of four hours  or more due to illnesses,  which  result  in consecutive  days 
absent f rom work, are considered one absence incident in relationship to potential disciplinary 
action.  
 
• The combination of worked hours, non- worked paid hours and PTO hours should not exceed 
the number of hours the Associate is normally authorized to work in a workweek, up to a 
maximum of 40 hours. Example: If an Associate would have normally been scheduled to    
 
24 
 work 36 hours that week, the total number of hours paid, including PTO, may not exceed 36.  
 
Specific Eligibility for Paid Time Off (PTO)  
 
PTO is earned on the following schedule. PTO is accrued based on full -time pay periods worked, 
without regard for overtime hours worked.  
 
Years of Service:  
• 0-1 years:  Up to 128 PTO  hours accruable per year, earned at an hourly  rate of 0.0615  
PTO hours per hour worked  
 
• 1-3 years: Up to 168 PTO hours accruable per year, earned at an hourly rate of 0.0807 
PTO hours per hour worked  
 
• 4+ years:  Up to 208 PTO  hours  accruable  per year, earned  at a rate of 0.1 PTO hours 
per hour worked  
 
Salary associates who take a full day of PTO must be deducted 8 hours of PTO regardless of 
typical actual hours worked in a day.  
 
Each associate may carry over no more than their maximum amount of accrued PTO on their 
anniversary date of hire. For example, an associate that has been with the company for two years may carry over no more than 168 PTO hours into their third year of employment. Associates are responsible for monitoring and taking their PTO so that they do not lose time accrued when their anniversary occurs (PTO is always subject to supervisory approval).
 
 
If extenuating business circumstances prevented the associate from taking scheduled PTO, this 
PTO may be carried over with Chief Officer approval if it is in excess of the maximum allowable 
carry over amount and is taken in the subsequent 3 calendar months.  
 
Non-Exempt A ssociate s may use PTO as described  below:  
 
• PTO hours wil l be paid at the Associate's base rate  
 
• If the Associate does  not have enough  PTO to cover time taken off from work,  that time will be 
unpaid.  
 
• After the Introductory Period (as  discussed above), non- exempt Associates are required to use any 
available PTO to cover missed hours , before tak ing time off without  pay. This requirement  
excludes any  time missed due to flexing/low census  or when  the Assoc iate's  department  or 
location  is closed  due to inclement  weather;  in these instances,  the Associate  may choose to use 
availab le PTO  or take time off without pay.  
 
Exempt  Associates  may use PTO as described below : 
 
• Exempt Associates are paid on a sa laried basis  and, if some hours  are worked in a day, salary  is 
continued with the appropriate PTO  deduction  applied. An exempt Associate  must  take PTO to 
cover  personal  absences.  PTO may be taken only in increments  of a full day (8 hours) or one-half 
day (4 hours). While no PTO will  be deducted for an absence less than  4 hours  in a s ingle day, 
such  absences should be limited and pre- approved.  
 
• If an exempt Associate has  fewer than 4 hours of  PTO and t akes a half day  of abs ence, then  100% 
of the balance of  the Associate' s PTO hour bank w ill be withdrawn and the Associate 's salary 
for the day will conti nue w ithout a d educ tion.    
 
25 
  
• If an exempt  Associate w ishes  to take a full day off work , he or she must  have  at lea st 8 hours  
of PTO  for the absence to be paid.  If an exem pt Associate  has fewer than 8 hours  of PTO and  
wishes  to take a full day of absence, then the Associate must take a full day off  without pay . 
 
• When an exempt Associate is on interm ittent or reduced schedu le leave under the Family  and 
Medical  leave  Act (FMLA),  MD Billing  may pay the Assoc iate PTO in  any increment  for the 
time that  the Associate is  away from work due to the FMLA -protected cond ition. If no PTO is 
available, MD Billing  may deduct the Assoc iate's salary accordi ngly.  
 
• Deductions may  be made from an exempt Associate 's compensation to account for absences  in 
full day increments  only if the Associ ate has exhausted his or her PTO allowance.   
 
• These procedur es assume the exempt Associate work s a regul ar shift of five days per week.  If the 
Associate  works any other schedul e, the amount of  PTO requi red for half day  absences shoul d 
equal one- half the Assoc iate's  regular shift. Example: If an Associate 's schedule is four 10- hour days  
per week , the Associate  should take PTO  in increments  of five hours.  
 
• Freque nt unscheduled absences  or other  abuse of these guide lines may result  in disciplinary 
action up to  and including term ination. 
 
• Gener ally, the  maximum PTO approved at a time for personal reasons , other than medical 
circumstances , will be two weeks , subject to management  approval. Additiona l PTO may be 
requested and approved  for special c ircumstances.  
 
Holidays/  Fami ly & Cultural  Days  
 
PTO is des igned to cover t ime off for holidays and family and cul tural days. Non- exempt Associates  
may choose whethe r to use available  PTO  or to take the day off without  pay. Exempt Associates must 
use PTO  in the same process  outlined above.  
 Unless MD Billing  has determined an Associate's work  is business  critical and time-  
sensitive,  and 
such work  is approved by the department 's senior  leadershi p, Associ ates may be  requ ired to take off 
work  on the fo llowing  holidays: 
 
• New Years Day 
• Memorial Day  
• Independence Day  
• Labor Day  
• Thanksgiving Day  
• Christmas Day  
  
Associates  working  on a holiday  may be eligible  for additiona l compensat ion as defined in the 
Holiday Diffe rentia ls Policy. 
 Family  and cultural  days  support  MD Billing  commitment  to divers ity and inclus ion all owing 
Associates time  
off for other holidays  that are important to them and their families.  Unless MD Billing  has determined an 
Associ ate's work is business  critical and time- sensit ive, Assoc iates may request  up to four days  per calendar  
year for other  family and cultural days.  
 Associates  may be asked to  provide a descript ion of the day  for which  they are requesting time off and 
the 
request  must  be schedu led and approved in advance by the Associate 's manager.  
 
Associates  working  on a family  or cultural holiday  are not eligible for additional compensation.  
    
 
26 
 Typica lly, holidays  and family or cultural  days  falling on Saturday  will be observed on Friday  and 
holidays  falling on Sunday  will be observed on Monday . 
 
The manager is responsible for schedul ing work on ho lidays accordi ng to business  and consumer 
needs. Managers  should respect the request for time off  for fam ily and cultural days and make 
efforts to accommodate the requests unless a compel ling business need exists that would cause the 
Associate's absence to be detrimental to oper ations  and no rep lacement  is available . 
 
Status Changes  
If an associates status changes from full -time to full -time revenue share, part -time, or PRN the 
associates PTO balance will be forfeited. Balances will not be maintained for future use in any status 
outside of regular full-time status.  
 
Voluntary Separation  
Associates who voluntarily separate from employment will forfeit any remaining Paid Time Off balance. The Company will not pay out any  PTO balance. 
 
 
Associates will not be permitted to cash out their earned hours of PTO.  
 Generally, Associates who have given notice of resignation may not utilize their PTO benefits during the notice period.   PTO hours may not be used to extend employment beyond the last day actually worked. 
 
 
If an associate has used PTO time not yet accrued, and employment terminates, the PTO taken will be 
deducted from the final paycheck. Associates who give notice of employment termination must work 
without utilizing PTO during the entirety of the notice  period.  
 
Rehires  
If an associate separates from employment and is rehired within 30 days, the associate’s previous date of hire will be used for purposes of PTO determination.  
 Other Time Off These guidelines do not cover all absences. An Associate may also be eligible for jury duty leave, bereavement leave, unpaid Family Medical Leave Act leave, Short or Long- Term Disability benefits, and 
other time according to MD Billing  policies and guidelines.  
 
Compensatory Time Off Policy  
  
It is the policy of MD Billing  to permit  exempt employees who work more hours than regularly scheduled to 
receive compensatory time off.  
  
Granting Compensatory Time Off  
Compensatory time off is granted to exempt positions. There is no legal requirement or obligation for MD 
Billing  to grant compensatory time off to exempt employees. A supervisor may choose to grant 
compensatory time off to exempt employees who are required to work in excess of 50 hours or more in a week for a special project or during weekends or any normally scheduled time off. Compensatory time will be granted on a discretionary basis and shall not be more than an hour -for-hour basis of time work, but, 
shall not necessarily be an hour -for-hour basis.  
  Using Compensatory Time Off  An employee who eligible for compensatory time and requests use of the time will only be permitted to use the time within the same pay period or the subsequent pay period. Approval for use of compensatory time will be solely at the supervisor's discretion and with final approval from human resources.  Compensatory 
time will not accrue in any manner to the employee’s benefit otherwise.     
 
27 
 Emergency Closings  
 
At times, emergencies such as severe weather, fires, power failure, or acts of God, can disrupt 
company operations. In extreme cases, these circumstances may require the closing of a work facility. When operations are officially closed due to emergency conditions, non- exempt associates will not be 
paid for the time off from scheduled work. In cases where an emergency closing is not authorized,  
associates who fail to report for work will not be paid for time off. Associates in essential operations may be asked to work on a day when operations are officially closed. In these circumstances, associates who work will receive regular pay.
 
 
Bereavement Leave  
 
Objective  
The Bereavement Leave Policy establishes uniform guidelines for providing paid time off to associates for absences related to the death of immediate family members and fellow associates or retirees  of MD 
Billing .
 
 
Eligibility  
All full- time, active associates are eligible for benefits under this policy after the ninety -day probationary 
period. If an associate is not eligible under these provisions the associate will be granted Leave Without Pay.
 
 
Procedures  
An associate who wishes to take time off due to the death of an immediate family member should notify his or her supervisor as soon as possible but in all instances prior to being absent from work. If an associate leaves work early on the day they are notified of the death, that day will not count as bereavement leave but will be paid as regular pay for salaried associates or hourly associates may utilize Paid Time Off benefits for this time.
 
 
In addition to bereavement leave, an associate may, with his or her supervisor's approval, use any available paid time off  for additional approved time off as necessary. Associates may be required to 
provide documentation with regard to their bereavement leave.
 
 
Bereavement pay is calculated based on the base pay rate at the time of absence, and it will not 
include any special forms of compensation, such as incentives, commissions, bonuses, overtime or 
shift differentials.  
 
Paid bereavement leave will be granted according to the following schedule:  
 
• Associates  are allowed up to three  consecutive days  off f rom regularly  scheduled duty with 
regular pay in the event of the death of the associate's spouse, domestic partner, child, 
parent, father -in-law, mother- in-law, brother or sister.  
 
• Associates  are allowed one day off f rom regular scheduled duty with regular  pay in the event of 
death of the associate's  grandparent,  grandchild or spouse's  grandparent.  
 
• Associates  are allowed up to four hours  of bereavement  leave  to attend the funeral  of a fellow 
regular  associate or retiree  of the company,  provided  such  absence f rom duty will not 
interfere with normal operations of the company.  
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
28 
 Jury Duty Leave  
 
MD Billing  encourages associates to fulfill their civic duties related to jury duty. If you are summoned 
for jury duty, notify your supervisor as soon as possible to make scheduling arrangements.  
 
If you are an exempt associate, you will not incur any deduction in pay for a partial week’s absence 
due to jury duty. If you are a non- exempt associate, you will be compensated for time spent on jury 
duty.  All associates will be compensated for up to five days based on their regular compensation 
schedule. If jury service e xtends beyond five days,  the associate will be compensated at a rate of 60% 
of their regular compensation schedule.  The Company reserves the right to require associates to 
provide proof of jury duty service to the extent authorized by law.  
 
The Company wil l not retaliate against any associate who requests or takes leave in accordance with 
this policy.  
Court Attendance and Witness Leave  
 
MD Billing  realizes that, on occasion, associates may be subpoenaed to appear in a civil, criminal, 
legislative, or administrative proceeding. In such cases, you will be provided unpaid leave to attend. Notify your supervisor as soon as possible to make scheduling arrangements. You may opt to use PTO in place of unpaid leave.
 
 
The Company reserves the right to require associates to provide proof of the need for leave to the extent authorized by law.
 
 
The Company will not retaliate against any associate who requests or takes leave in accordance with this policy.
 
 
Voting Leave  
 
If your work schedule prevents you from voting on Election Day, the Company will allow you a reasonable time off to vote. The time when you can go to vote will be at the discretion of your supervisor, consistent with applicable legal requirements.
 
 
Leave of Absence  
 
PURPOSE: The purpose of this policy is to set forth MD Billing . (MDB ) leaves of absence in an 
integrated manner. The policy addresses leaves of absence for the following reasons: (1) serious 
health condition; (2) pregnancy disability; (3) parenting; (4) family care; (5) personal; (6) military; and (7) other medical/reasonable accommodations. The policy also addresses the use of Paid/Extended Time Off.
 
 
1. MDB  leave of Absence Policy Outline: Provisions that Apply to Multiple  Policies  
 
1.1 PAY WHILE ON  LEAVE  
1.1.1  Leaves  of absen ce are generally  provided  on an unpaid basis.  Unless  prohibited  by 
law, associates are required to use all applicable Paid Time Off (PTO) while on 
leave.  
1.1.2  The substitution of any paid benefits  does  not extend the total amount  of leave  that 
may be taken  under system  policy  and applicable  law. When  paid benefits  are 
exhausted, the remaining leave period will be unpaid.  
1.1.3  PTO will be paid until the balance drops below 1 hour.  
1.1.4  Accrued PTO hours must be taken at the rate of the regular work 
schedule,  not exceeding 80 hours per pay  period.     
 
29 
  
1.2 BENEFIT CONTINUATION WHILE ON  LEAVE  
1.2.1  As allowed by law, group  health insurance benefits  will be continued  for a maximum  
of 12 weeks;  thereafter,  associates  may be eligible  to continue benefits  through  a 
COBRA  
program. If an associate has elected Supplemental Benefits, it is the associate’s 
responsibility to contact the appropriate provider to set -up direct bill.  
1.2.2  In the event there is less than ninety (90) days between an associate’s return to work  
from one leave and the start date of another leave, the time spent on the prior leave 
will be counted for purposes of determining the length of benefits continuation, where 
allowed by law. For example, if an associate is on medical leave for 1 month, returns 
to work fo r 60 days, and then takes another medical leave, they shall be entitled to 
two additional months of benefits coverage (i.e. for a total of 12 weeks) and then will be eligible to continue benefits under the COBRA program.
 
1.2.3  To the extent an associate is using  accrued PTO, insurance premiums 
will be automatically  deducted fr om the associate’s  paycheck.  
1.2.4  If an associate’s  available  paid time off is depleted or if the associate’s  paycheck  is 
insufficient to cover the total premium, the associate is responsible for the payment of 
the remainder of the premium due.  
1.2.5  When  an associate’s  pay is insufficient  to pay for benefit  premiums,  s/he will be 
required to set up a payment arrangement with the HR  department.  
1.2.6  Failure to pay a premium according to the timing agreed upon may result in 
the termination of the associate’s  insurance coverage,  and MDB  may recover  f 
rom the associate the costs of any health insurance premiums it has paid on 
behalf of the associate.  
1.2.7  For purposes  of retirement  and savings  plans,  service credits  during  a leave  of 
absence will be determined under the appropriate plan documents.  
1.2.8  Associates’  Basic  Life Insurance coverage will be governed in accordance with the 
plan document.  
 
1.3 JOB PROTECTION WHILE ON  LEAVE  
1.3.1  Job protection  varies  by type of leave.  See the detailed leave  policies  for 
more information.  
1.3.2  Under all policies, if an associate’s position is eliminated or otherwise ceases to 
exist while  on leave  (for example,  as part of a reduction- in-force),  the leave  may be 
terminated and the associate’s right to return to work would be the same as any 
other associate under similar circumstances.  
 
1.4 INTERMITTENT LEAVE (MULTIPLE ABSENCES FOR THE SAME  REASON)  
1.4.1  Leave may be available on an intermittent or reduced work schedule basis, 
only as required  by law. Requests  for intermittent  time off will be handled  on a 
case- by-case basis in accordance with applicable  laws.  
1.4.2  Associates  must  give 30 days’  notice  of the need for an intermittent  leave,  and unless  
otherwise limited by law, may not take intermittent absences until the leave is 
approved.  I f 30 days’  notice is not practicable;  notice  must  be given  as soon as 
practicable.  
1.4.3  Under FMLA, some special rules apply to intermittent  absences:     
 
30 
 1.4.3.1 Associates  must  make a reasonable effort  to arrange scheduled  
intermittent absences so as not to unduly interrupt MDB ’s operations.  
1.4.3.2 MDB may require  associates to transfer  temporarily  to another position  for which  
the 
associate is qualified, that would provide equivalent pay and benefits and better 
accommodate scheduled intermittent absences.  
1.4.3.3 Associates  must  comply  with MD Billing ’ usual  and customary  policies  for 
reporting leaves and absences, including “call in” and other absence 
reporting  
processes. If an associate does not comply with the employer’s usual notice 
andprocedural requirements, and no unusual circumstances justify the failure to comply, the associate may be subject to attendance discipline.
 
1.4.3.4 Intermittent absences  may be approved  only as estimated by a health  care 
provider.  
If the frequency or duration of absences exceeds the provider’s estimate, MDB  
will require a new certification.  
1.4.3.5 MDB may seek a second opinion when certifying an intermittent absence, if  MDB  
has reason to doubt the value of the certification. An example of when a second 
opinion may be sought is when a pattern of absences is evident, and this is 
different than what the provider estimated (for example, if absences frequently happen on the same day of the week, or time of day). In a case where the 
second opinion differs  
from the first opinion, MDB  may obtain the opinion of a third health care provider,  
designated or approved by MDB  and the associate.  
1.4.3.6 The amount of leave available on an intermittent basis depends on the 
associate’s scheduled work hours. For associates with a variable (changing) 
work schedule, a 12 -week average of scheduled work hours will be used. Under 
FMLA the amount of leave available is calculated by multiplying average 
scheduled weekly work  hours by 
12. For example, an associate who works 30 hours a week has 360 hours of FMLA available. This calculation is made when a new leave is approved and is 
held constant for that leave. Should the associate apply for another leave, for another reason, the amount of available leave may be adjusted to reflect 
changes to the associate’s scheduled work hours.
 
 
1.5 APPLYING FOR A  LEAVE  
1.5.1  Associates  are required to give at least  30 days’  notice  of their desire to take a 
leave  of absence by contacting the Human Resources department at (806)  712-
1096.  
1.5.2  If the need for leave  is unforeseeable,  associates  must  give notice  as soon as 
possible. Failure to give timely notice could result in postponement or denial of 
the requested leave. If no PTO is available, the leave will be unpaid.  
1.5.3  Associates  must  report  absences  in accordance with MDB attendance policies.  
Failure  to do so, even if the leave is protected under FMLA, may result in 
attendance discipline to the extent that the law  allows.  
 
1.6 WHILE ON  LEAVE  
1.6.1  MDB may request additional information or medical certification during the course    
 
31 
 of a leave.  Associates  must promptly  respond to these  requests,  or, to the extent  al 
lowed  by law, further leave may be denied or delayed.  
1.6.2  If the circumstances of the leave  change,  such  as the expected return  date or the 
nature of a medical condition, associates are required to contact the Human 
Resources department as soon as possible.  
1.6.3  All requests  for internal  transfers while on an approved  leave  of absence 
must  be submitted to and approved by the Human Resources  department.  
1.6.4  While  on leave,  the associate may not engage  in other work  or employment  
without notif ication  and approval  from  MDB . 
 
1.7 RECERTIFICATION OF LEAVES UNDER FMLA  
1.7.1  Recertification may be required  every  thirty  (30) days  and/or under  the 
following circumstances:  
1.7.1.1 The associate requests an extension of leave;  
1.7.1.2 Circumstances  described by the original  certification  have changed  significantly  
(e.g., the duration of the illness, the nature of the illness,  complications);  
1.7.1.3 MDB receives  information  that casts doubt  upon  the continuing validity  of the 
certification;  
 
1.8 RETURNING FROM  LEAVE  
1.8.1  Associates  on a continuous  leave of absence must  notify  MDB  at least  one week  
before their scheduled return date to confirm their status and intent to return to 
work by calling the Human Resources  department.  
1.8.2  Associates returning from a leave taken for their own serious health condition 
must submit  a Return  to Work  Release fr om their health care provider  authorizing 
their return to work.  
1.8.3  Prior to returning to work from any type of leave absence, associates must be 
current on all licensure and certifications  required  to perform  the essential  functions  
of their position. If an associate’s licensure or certification is expired, they  will be 
placed on an unpaid administrative leave for 30 days or until licenses and/or 
certifications are current, in accordance with MDB  policy.  
 
1.9 FAILURE TO RETURN TO WORK  
1.9.1  If the associate is not able to or does not wish to return to work at the end of the 
approved leave, the associate may apply for an extension by contacting the HR 
department.  Extensions  will be considered on a case- by-case basis.  MDB reserves  
the right to grant  or deny  such  requests  in its sole discretion  in compliance with 
applicable law and its own  policies.  
1.9.2  It is the associate’s responsibility to report to work at the end of the approved leave. 
Failure  to return  to work  at the scheduled  end of the leave or to obtain  an extension 
of the leave will be considered a voluntary resignation of  employment.  
 
2. Detailed Policy: Leave for the Associate’s Own Serious Health Condition, 
excluding Pregnancy  
 
2.1 PURPOSE  
    
 
32 
 MDB  offers eligible associates a leave of absence for their own illness or injury. This 
includes work -related illness and injury. This leave may be provided in two segments:  
 
• The associate is eligible  for leave  under  the Family  & Medical  Leave Act of 1993.  
(FMLA), the first portion of the leave, typically up to 12 work weeks in a rolling 
back 12-month period, will be provided as required under these laws.  
• Following  exhaustion of FMLA,  or if the  associate is not eligible for FMLA,  the 
remainder of leave may be provided under MDB ’s Medical Leave or as an ADA 
accommodation. See Medical Leve section for more  information.  
 
2.2 ELIGIBILIITY FOR  LEAVE  
2.2.1  To be eligible for leave under FMLA, an associate:  
• must have worked at MDB  for at least 12 months (these 12 months need 
not be consecutive),  and 
• must have worked a minimum of 1,250 hours in the 12 months  
immediately prior  to the f irst day of the requested leave,  and 
• must  be employed at a worksite  that employs  50 or more  associates  
within 75 miles of the associate’s  worksite.  
2.2.2  To be eligible for leave under the MDB  Medical Leave policy, an associate:  
• Must be a full- or part-time associate who has been  employed  with MDB  
for at least 6 consecutive months,  and 
• Must not otherwise be eligible for leave under FMLA (for example, the 
associate is not eligible  for FMLA  or has exhausted leave under those 
laws).  
• In the event  that an associate has been  an associate of MDB  for less 
than 6 consecutive months, medical leave is available only as a 
reasonable accommodation  under  ADA,  or on a case -by-case  basis  is 
approved  by the associate’s department Director and Human 
Resources.  
 
2.3 QUALITIFICATIONS FOR LEAVE  
2.3.1  FMLA  leave  may be taken  because the associate is incapacitated f rom his/her  
own job due to an illness or injury.  
2.3.2  To support  a request  for FMLA  leave,  the associate must  provide  medical  certification  
from a health care provider,  no later than 15 calendar days after it is requested by 
MDB . See MDB  Medical Leave section for information on qualifying for leave not 
covered by FMLA.  
2.4 LEAVE  AVAILABLE  
2.4.1  Eligible  associates  who qualify  for FMLA  leave  are entitled  to 12 work weeks  of 
FMLA leave in a rolling back 12-month period. MDB  defines this period as the 12 
months immediately  prior  to the f irst day of the requested leave.  
• Available FMLA leave  time will be calculated by subtracting  any FMLA 
leave the associate has taken during the preceding 12 months.  
• This 12-work week entitlement includes leave taken for any reason 
under FMLA.  
2.4.2  If an associate has exhausted FMLA,  or is not eligible  for FMLA,  additional  leave  may 
be    
 
33 
 offered under the MDB  medical leave section, or as an ADA accommodation. The 
amount of leave available will be determined on a case- by-case basis. Available 
FMLA leave time will be calculated by subtracting any FMLA leave the associate 
has taken during the preceding 12 months.  
 
2.5 JOB PROTECTION WHILE ON  LEAVE  
2.5.1  If an associate returns from a leave protected under FMLA and has not exceeded 
the maximum  leave entitlement  under those laws,  the associate will be returned  to 
his or her previous position under those laws, the associate will be returned to his 
or her previous position or an equivalent  position.  
2.5.2  Once FMLA leave is exhausted, MDB  is unable to guarantee job protection 
and reinstatement in all  cases.  
 
3. Detailed Policy: Pregnancy Disability Leave  
 
3.1 PURPOSE  
3.1.1  MDB  offers  time off for pregnancy  and childbirth,  which  typically  consist  of 
two components:  
• Leave taken when  an associate is disabled due to pregnancy,  childbirth,  
or a related serious health condition, covered under this policy;  and 
• Leave taken to spend time with the newborn child, covered under  
the Parenting Leave section.  
 
3.2 ELIGIBILITY  
3.2.1  To be eligible for pregnancy  disability  leave  under  FMLA,  an associate  must  have 
worked at MDB  for at least 12 months and worked a minimum of 1,250 hours in the 
12 months immediately  prior  to the f irst day of the requested leave.  
3.2.2  Associates  who are not eligible  for, or have exhausted, FMLA  and/or  PDL may be 
eligible  
for leave under the MDB  Medical Leave section, or as an ADA accommodation.  
 
3.3 LEAVE  AVAILABLE  
3.3.1  Eligible  associates  who qualify  for FMLA  leave  are entitled  to 12 work weeks  of 
FMLA leave in a rolling back 12-month period. MDB  defines this period as the 12 
months immediately  prior  to the f irst day of the requested leave.  
• Available FMLA leave  time will be calculated by subtracting  any FMLA 
leave the associate has taken during the preceding 12 months.  
• This 12-work week entitlement includes leave taken for any reason 
under FMLA.  
3.3.2  The maximum  amount of leave  available  to associates who are not eligible for, or 
have exhausted,  FMLA  will be determined  on a case -by-case basis  under the MDB  
Medical Leave policy.  
 
3.4 JOB PROTECTION WHILE ON  LEAVE  
3.4.1  If an eligible associate returns  f rom a leave protected by FMLA  and has not 
exceeded  the maximum leave entitlement under those laws, they will be returned to 
her previous position or an equivalent  position.     
 
34 
 3.4.2  Once FMLA is exhausted, MDB  is unable to guarantee job protection and 
reinstatement in all cases.  If the associate is on an approved  leave,  at the conclusion  
of leave,  MDB  will reinstate her to the same or similar position, if available.  
 
4. Detailed Policy: Parenting Leave  
 
4.1 PURPOSE  
4.1.1  MDB  offers time to spend time with a new child, including a child who is adopted or 
placed for foster care. Parenting Leave must be completed within 12 months of the 
child’s birth or placement.  
 
4.2 ELIGIBILITY  
4.2.1  To be eligible for leave  under  FMLA, an  associate must have  worked at MDB  for at 
least 12 months  and worked a minimum  of 1,250 hours  in the previous  12 months  
immediately prior  to the f irst day of the requested leave.  
4.2.2  An associate who is not eligible for FMLA may  apply  for Personal  Leave to spend 
time with a new child.  
 
4.3 COVERED  RELATIONSHIPS  
4.3.1  For purposes of FMLA, child means a biological, adopted or foster child, a stepchild, 
a legal  ward,  or a child  of a person  standing  in loco parentis,  who is either under age 
18, or 
age 18 or older and “incapable of self -care because of a mental or physical 
disability” at the time that FMLA leave is to commerce.  
4.3.2  Federal  FMLA  regulations  define in loco parentis  as including those with day -to-day 
responsibilities to care for and/or financially support a child. Associates who have 
no biological or legal relationship with a child may stand in loco parentis to the child 
and be entitled to FMLA leave.  
 
4.4 LEAVE  AVAILABLE  
4.4.1  Eligible  associates  who qualify  for leave  are entitled  to 12 work  weeks  of FMLA  leave  
in a rolling back 12-month period, defined as the 12 months immediately prior to the 
f irst day of the requested leave. This 12-work week entitlement includes leave taken 
for any reason under FMLA.  
4.4.2  Parenting Leave must  be completed  within  12 months  of the child’s  birth or 
placement.  
4.4.3  Associates  may take Parenting  Leave before  the actual  placement  or adoption  of a 
child in an absence f rom work is required for the placement for adoption or foster 
care to proceed. For example, the associate may be required to attend counseling 
sessions, appear in court, consult with his or her attorney or the doctor(s) 
representing the birth parent,  submit  to a physical  examination,  or travel  to complete  
an adoption  or foster  care placement.  
4.4.4  When  both  spouses  are employed by MDB , Parenting Leave is limited  to a 
combined total of twelve (12) weeks in a 12- month period for absences caused 
by the birth, adoption  of a child,  or placement  of a foster  child,  or to care for a 
parent  with a serious health condition, or due the associate’s own serious health  
illness.     
 
35 
 4.5 LIMITS ON INTERMITTEN LEAVE (MULTIPLE ABSENCES FOR THE SAME  REASON)  
4.5.1  Intermittent  bonding  is only available on an agreed- upon schedule,  by approval  of 
Human Resources, who will work with the manager/supervisor in making this 
determination.  
 
5. Detailed Policy: Family Care Leave  
 
5.1 PURPOSE  
5.1.1  MDB  offers  time off to care for a family  member with a serious  health condition.  
 
5.2 ELIGIBILITY  
5.2.1  To be eligible  for leave  under  FMLA, an  associate must  have worked at MDB  for at 
least 12 months and worked a minimum of 1,250 hours in the previous 12 months.  
MDB  
defines this period as the 12 months immediately prior to the f irst day of the 
requested leave.  
5.2.2  An associate who is not eligible for FMLA  may apply  for Personal  Leave  to care for a 
family member.  
 
5.3 COVERED FAMILY  MEMBERS  
5.3.1  For purposes of Federal FMLA, leave taken to care for a family member with a 
serious health condition,  son or daughter  means  a biological,  adopted,  or foster  
child,  a stepchild, a legal  ward,  or a child  of a person  standing in loco parentis  who is 
either under age 18, 
or age 18 or older and “incapable of self -care because of a mental or physical 
disability” at the time that FMLA leave is to commence. Parent means a biological, 
adoptive, step or foster father or mother, legal guardian, or any other individual who 
stood in loco parentis to the associate when the associate was a child. FMLA does 
not cover “in laws;” i.e., mother - or father- in-law. 
5.3.2  Federal FMLA regulations define in loco parentis as including those with day -to—
day responsibilities to care for and/or financ ially support a child. Associates who 
have no biological or legal relationship with a child may nonetheless stand in loco 
parentis to the child and be entitled  to FMLA  leave.  And,  similarly, a  parent  with 
which  the associate has no biological  or legal  relationship may be a covered family  
member.  
5.3.3  To care for a family  member  who is not covered under FMLA,  an associate may 
apply  for a Personal  Leave.  
 
5.4 LEAVE  AVAILABLE  
5.4.1  Eligible  associates  who qualify  for leave  are entitled  to 12 work  weeks  of FMLA  leave 
in a rolling back 12-month period, defined as the 12 months immediately prior to the 
first day of the requested leave.  
5.4.2  An associate who exhausts  FMLA  may apply  for a Personal  Leave  for additional  
time off to care for a family  member.  
 
6. Detailed Policy: Personal  Leave  
 
6.1 PURPOSE     
 
36 
 6.1.1  MDB  recognizes that, f rom time to time, an associate may need to take time off 
from work to attend to personal matters that are not covered by any legal 
entitlement to a leave of absence.  At its sole discretion,  MDB  may grant  a leave  of 
absence for personal (non- medical)  reasons.  
 
6.2 ELIGIBILITY  
6.2.1  A personal leave is available to all full-time and part-time associates  who have 
been employed with MDB  for at least 6  months.  
6.2.2  Personal leave may be taken f or non-medical  reasons.  
6.2.3  Personal leave is not available to associates who are eligible for, and have 
available leave balances under FMLA, who are taking leave for a reason covered 
by those regulations (such as spending time with a new child). It is the 
responsibility of MDB  to designate leave taken for those reasons as FMLA to the 
extent that the associate is eligible and has not exhausted his or her available  
leave.  
 
6.3 LEAVE  AVAILABLE  
6.3.1  For personal  leave,  an associate may request  up to 30 days  of leave in a rolling back  
12- month period,  defined  as the 12 months  immediately  prior  to the f irst day of the 
requested leave. Under special circumstances, an associate’s personal leave may 
be extended up to a maximum of 90 days in a rolling 12- month period. Each request 
will be considered on a case -by-case  basis.  
 
6.4 LIMITS ON INTERMITTEN LEAVE (MULTIPLE ABSENCES FOR THE SAME  REASON)  
6.4.1  Personal Leave may not be taken on an intermittent  basis.  
 
6.5 SPECIAL PAY AND BENEFIT POLICIES THAT APPLY TO PERSONAL  LEAVE  
6.5.1  Personal  leaves  are provided  on an unpaid basis.  Associates,  however,  must  use 
all available PTO while on personal  leave.  
6.5.2  Group health insurance coverage, as well as any other insurance to which the 
associate is entitled as an associate of MDB , will continue throughout the duration 
of the personal leave,  up to a maximum of 90 days  for personal  leaves  (because  this 
is the maximum  duration of a personal leave), on the same terms/conditions as 
though the associate was not on leave.  
 
6.6 JOB PROTECTION WHILE ON  LEAVE  
6.6.1  MDB  is unable to guarantee job protection and reinstatements in all cases. At 
the conclusion of an associate’s approved  leave,  MDB  will reinstate the 
associate to the same or similar position if available.  
 
7. Detailed Policy: Military Caregiver  Leave  
 
7.1 PURPOSE  
7.1.1  MDB  offers a leave of absence to eligible associates to care for a covered service 
member  with a serious injury  or illness  incurred during active  duty in accordance  
with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA). If applicable, MDB  will 
provide leaves in accordance with any other state leave laws that apply.     
 
37 
  
7.2 ELIGIBILITY  
7.2.1  To be eligible  for leave  under  FMLA, an  associate must  have worked at MDB  for at 
least 12 months and worked a minimum of 1,250 hours in the previous 12 months.  
MDB  
defines this period as the 12 months immediately prior to the f irst day of the 
requested leave.  
7.2.2  An associate who is not eligible for FMLA  may apply  for Personal  Leave  for an 
absence  
related to a family member’s military service.  
 
7.3 COVERED SERVICE  MEMBER  
7.3.1  FMLA  provides  leave  for the associate to provide  care for a covered service  member 
with a serious health condition incurred while on active duty, defined as follows:  
• a member of the Armed Forces (including a member of the National 
Guard or Reserves) who is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, 
or therapy, is otherwise in outpatient status, or is otherwise on the 
temporary disability retired list, for a serious injury or illness;  or 
• a veteran who is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy, 
for a serious injury or illness and who was a member of the Armed 
Forces (including a member of the National  Guard or Reserves) at any 
time during the  period of 5 years  preceding the date on which  the veteran 
undergoes  that medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy.  
7.3.2  Under  FMLA,  the covered service  member  must be the associate’s  spouse,  
son, daughter, parent, or next of kin. 
7.3.3  To care for a family  member  who is not covered under FMLA,  an associate may 
apply  for a Personal  Leave.  
 
7.4 LEAVE  AVAILABLE  
7.4.1  Eligible associates who qualify for leave are entitled to 26 weeks of FMLA leave in 
a single 12-month period.  This leave is combined  with all other  FMLA  (state  and/or  
federal) leaves during that period, resulting in a maximum total leave entitlement of 
26 weeks.  
7.4.2  If an eligible  associate does  not take all his or her 26 workweeks  of leave  entitlement  
to 
care for a covered service member during this “single 12- month period,” the 
remaining part of his or her 26 workweeks of leave entitlement to care for the 
covered service member is forfeited.  
 
7.4.3  The 26 work week limit is applied on a per-covered- service member, per- injury 
basis such that an eligible associate may be entitled to take more than one period 
of 26 workweeks of leave if the leave is to care for different covered serviced 
members or to care for the same  service  member  with a subsequent  serious  injury  
or illness,  except  that no more than 26 workweeks of leave may be taken within any 
“single 12-month period.”  
 
8. Detailed Policy: Military Duty  Leave  
    
 
38 
 8.1 PURPOSE  
8.1.1  MDB  offers Military Duty Leave to comply with the Uniformed Services 
Employment & Reemployment  Rights  Acts  (USERRA).  Associates  who are 
ordered to, or volunteer  for military training or active duty in the Armed Forces of 
the United States, the National Guard,  the United  States  Coast  Guard,  or the 
commissioned  corps  of the Public  Health Service may take a leave of absence for 
the length of service.  
8.2 ELIGIBILITY  
8.2.1  All associates  called  to, or volunteering for, covered military  duty are eligible  for 
leave under this  policy.  
 
8.3 COVERED MILITARY  DUTY  
8.3.1  Covered military duty  includes:  
• Service in the United States Uniformed Services, including the Armed 
Forces, Army National Guard, Air National Guard, full time National Guard 
duties and the commissioned corps of the Public Health  Service  
• Active  duty of reservists of the United  States  Military  Reserve (and any 
other group designated by the President of applicable  law) 
• Military  Training  Duty,  Initial  Active  Duty for Training,  Active  Duty for 
Military Service and Emergency  Service  
 
8.4 LEAVE  AVAILABLE  
8.4.1  IN general,  under USERRA,  an associate is entitled for leave  for up to f ive 
years  of cumulative military service. However, the five- year time limit may be 
extended as required by applicable  law. 
8.4.2  Although military leave generally is unpaid, associates may elect to use their 
accrued vacation/PTO  days  or f loating holidays,  if any.  The substitution of such  paid 
benefits  does not extend the total amount of leave that may be taken pursuant to 
this policy.  
 
8.5 APPLYING FOR  LEAVE  
8.5.1  An associate who is called  to active  duty should  immediately  contact  MDB  
leave administrator.  
8.5.2  The associate must  provide documentation of the call to active  duty,  typically  by 
providing  
a copy of his/her military orders.  
 
8.6 REINSTATEMENT TO  EMPLOYMENT  
8.6.1  Associates  on military  leave  of absence are eligible  for re-employment  with MDB , 
subject to the following  conditions:  
• The associate has satisfactorily  completed military  service  (i.e., has 
been discharged or released f  rom military  service  under honorable  
conditions);  
• The length of military  leave  does  not exceed f ive years,  except  as 
required under  USERRA;  
• The associate is qualified  to perform  the duties  of the reemployed  
position.     
 
39 
 • If the individual is no longer qualified to perform those duties because 
of a disability that occurred, was aggravated, or became manifested 
during the period of military service, the associate will be placed in 
another existing position that they are capable of performing, and 
which is equivalent in seniority, status and pay as the former position 
or, under certain circumstances,  which  mostly  closely  approximates  the 
pre-service  position.  
• The application  for reemployment  is made within  the following  
time requirements:  
o Service  of less than 31 days:  The associate  must  report  to work  
on the first scheduled  workday  that occurs  after the day the 
associate returns home from military  service.  
o Service of more than 30 days and less than 181 days: The 
associate must apply  for reemployment  within  14 days  after  the 
end of service.  
o Service  in excess of 180 days:  The associate must  apply  
for reemployment within 90 days after the end of 
service.  
• For associates who are convalescing due to a disability incurred or 
aggravated during the period of service, the se time limits may be 
extended during the time necessary  for the associate to recover,  not to 
exceed 2 years.  
 
8.6.2  A member of the National Guard or a reservist of the United States Military Reserve 
who was called into active duty is eligible for reemployment if they applied for 
reemployment within 40 days after the end of service if the individual held a full-
time position  with MDB , or within  5 days  after the end of service  if the individual 
held a part - time position.  
8.6.3  For military  leaves  in excess  of 30 days,  the associate must  provide  documentation 
at the end f the period of service showing that they performed covered services 
during the military leave of absence, that they had satisfactorily completed covered 
services, and that his or her application for reemployment is  timely.  
8.6.4  An associate who returns from leave and meets the requirements outlined in this 
policy will be returned to the position the associate would have held had the person 
remained continuously employed or to an equivalent job, unless changed 
circumstances have made  reemployment  impossible or unreasona ble, or would 
impose  an undue hardship on MDB . 
 
9. Detailed Policy: MDB  Medical  Leave  
 
9.1 PURPOSE  
9.1.1  Following exhaustion of FMLA, or if the associate is not eligible for FMLA, 
MDB  offers eligible associates a leave of absence for their own illness or 
injury. This includes work -related illness and injury, as well as  pregnancy.  
 
9.2 ELIGIBILITY FOR  LEAVE  
9.2.1  To be eligible for leave under MDB ’s Medical Leave policy, an associate:     
 
40 
 • Must be a full- or part-time associate who has been  employed  with MDB  
for at least 6 consecutive months,  and 
• Must not otherwise be eligible for leave under FMLA (for example, 
this associate is not eligible for MLA  or has exhausted leave  under 
those laws).  
• In the event that an associate has been an associate of MDB  for less 
than 6 consecutive months,  leave  is available only as a reasonable  
accommodation under ADA, or on a case -by-case basis as approved 
by the associates’ department Director and Human Resources.  
 
9.3 QUALIFICATIONS FOR LEAVE  
9.3.1  This leave may be taken  because the associate is disabled due to an illness  or 
injury, including pregnancy.  
9.3.2  To support  a request  for leave,  the associate must  provide  medical  documentation f 
rom a treating health care provider no later than 15 calendar days after it is 
requested by MDB  or its leave  administrator.  
 
9.4 DEFINITION OF DISABILITY UNDER THIS POLICY  
9.4.1  Medical  Leave is intended for illnesses  and/or  injuries  that are incapacitating,  
according to the following  definition:  
• An associate will be considered incapacitated when, as a result of 
illness or injury, they are unable to perform the substantial and material 
functions necessary for his/her own position in the usual and 
customary way and the associate is not working  in his/her own position,  
or in a position  with similar duties or demands, at MDB  or at any other 
employer.  
• An associate will be considered incapacitated if , at the direction  of MDB , 
or a public health agency, s/he is prohibited from working because of 
infection prevention controls.  
• The associate must  be certified  by an acceptable  treating provider.  
Treating provider is a licensed health care provider who is personally 
caring for the associate, performing tasks that are within the limits of 
his or her medical license.  
• The provider  must  be licensed  to practice medicine  in the United  States,  
and prescribe  and administer drugs  or perform  surgery; or has a 
doctoral  degree in Psychology (PhD  or PsyD)  whose  primary  practice  is 
treating patients;  or is a legally qualified medical practitioner according 
to the state laws and regulations.  This definition  also includes  a doctor  
of osteopathy,  or D.O.  
• MDB  will not recognize  the associate him/herself,  or a member  of 
the associate’s family as a treating provider.  
• MDB  Medical  Leave cannot  be used during  periods  of incapacity  
related to elective (not medically necessary ), non -reconstructive 
cosmetic  surgery.  
• An associate will be considered incapacitated if, at the direction of MDB , 
s/he is  prohibited from working  because of infection prevention controls.     
 
41 
  
9.5 LEAVE  AVAILABLE  
9.5.1  Following  exhaustion of FMLA,  or if the associate is not eligible  for FMLA,  the 
remainder of leave,  may be provided under  MDB ’s Medical  Leave or as an ADA  
accommodation.  
9.5.2  This period includes  leaves  taken for the associate’s  own illness,  including time 
taken under FMLA.  
9.5.3  In the event there is less than ninety (90) days between an associate’s return to work  
from one medical leave and the start date of another medical leave, the time spent on 
the 
 shall be entitled to one additional month of leave.  
9.5.4  Leave may be granted beyond  26 work  weeks, but only as an ADA accommodation.  
See below.  
 
9.6 LEAVE AVAILABLE AS A REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION UNDER ADA  
9.6.1  When  all other  sources  of leave  have been  exhausted,  or if an associate is not 
eligible  for leave under the MDB Medical Leave policy, and the associate continues 
to be unable to work due to an incapacitating illness or injury, leave may be 
available as a reasonable accommodation under  ADA.  
9.6.2  The amount  of leave  available,  the continuation of benefits  and reinstatement  
rights  will be determined on a case -by-case basis, through an interactive process.  
9.6.3  An associate who needs  leave as an accommodation  has some  key 
responsibilities  in enabling MDB to comply with ADA and similar laws. The 
associate must:  
• Demonstrate  his/her qualifications  to perform  the job (i.e. must  satisfy  the 
job requirements, including education, background, work experience, 
skills, certifications and/or licenses,  etc.),  
• Provide  all applicable  supporting  documentation needed  by 
MDB to determine whether an accommodation,  and 
• Actively  participate in the interactive accommodation  process.  If an 
associate abandons  the interactive process,  or fails to provide 
information that has 
been requested, MDB  may decline the associate’s request for additional  
leave.  
 
9.7 JOB PROTECTION WHILE ON  LEAVE  
9.7.1  MDB is unable to guarantee job protection and reinstatement in all cases.  If the 
associate is on an approved medical leave, at the conclusion of the associate’s 
leave, MDB will reinstate the associate to the same or similar position, if available.  
 
10. Definitions  
 
For the purpose of leave of absence policies:  
 
 “Child”  means a biological, adopted or foster child, a step- child, a legal ward, or a 
child of a person standing in loco parentis, when the child is under 18 years old or age 
18 or older but incapable of self -care.  
    
 
42 
  “Covered Active Duty”  means, in the case of a member of a regular component of the 
Armed Forces, duty during the deployment of the member with the Armed Forces to a 
foreign country. In the case of a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces, duty 
during the deployment of the member with the Armed Forces to a foreign country under a 
call or order to active duty under a provision of law referred to in section 101(a)(13)(B) of Title 10, United States Code.
 
 
 “Covered Service Member”  is a) a member of the Armed Forces (including a member of the 
National Guard or Reserves who is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy, is 
otherwise in outpatient status, or is otherwise on the temporary disability retired list, for a 
serious injury or illness; or b) a veteran who is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy, for
 
a serious injury or illness and who was a member of the Armed Forces (including a 
member of the National Guard or Reserves) at any time during the period of 5 years preceding the date on which the veteran undergoes that medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy.
 
 
 “Health Care Provider”  means:  
 
1) A Doctor of Medicine  or Osteopathy  who is authorized to practiced medicine  or 
surgery (as appropriate) by the State in which the doctor practices;  or 
2) Others “capable of providing health care services”, which includes  only:  
3) Podiatrists, dentists, clinical psychologists, optometrists, and chiropractors (limited to 
treatment consisting of manual manipulation of the spine to correct a subluxation as 
demonstrated by X-ray to exist)  authorized to practice  in the State  and performing 
within  the scope  of their practice as defined under State law;  
4) Nurse practitioners, nurse -midwives, clinical social workers and physician assistants 
who are authorized to practice under State law and who are performing within the scope 
of their practice  as defined  under State  law and who are performing within  the scope  of 
their practice as defined under State law; 
5) Any health care provider  from whom  an employer  or the employer’s  group health  
plan’s benefits  manager  will accept  certification  of the existence  of a serious health 
condition to substantiate a claim for benefits;  and 
6) A health  care provider  listed  above  who practices  in a country  other than the United  
States, who is authorized to practice in accordance with the law of that country, and 
who is 
performing within the scope of his or her practice as defined under such law. The phrase  
“authorized to practice in the State” as used in this section means that the provider must 
be authorized to diagnose and treat physical or mental health conditions.  
 “Incapable of self-care”  means that the individual requires active assistance or supervision 
to provide daily self -care in several of the “activities of daily living” (ADLs) or “instrumental 
activities of daily living” (IADLs). Activities of daily living include adapti ve activities such as 
caring appropriately for one’s grooming and hygiene, bathing, dressing,  and eating. 
Instrumental activities of daily living include cooking, cleaning, shopping, taking public 
transportation, paying bills, maintaining a residence, using telephones and directories, using a post office, etc.
    
 
43 
  “Next of kin of a Covered Service member”  is defined as the nearest blood relative other 
than the covered service member’s spouse, parent, son, or daughter, in the following order 
of priority: blood relatives who have been granted legal custody of the covered service 
member by court decree or statutory provisions, brothers and sisters, grandparents, aunts and uncles, and f irst cousins, unless the covered service member has specifically designated in writing another blood relative as his or her nearest blood relative for purposes of military caregiver leave under the FMLA. When no such designation is made, and there are multiple family members shall be
 
considered the covered service member’s next of kin and may take FMLA leave to provide care to the covered service member, either consecutively or simultaneously. When such 
designation has been made, the designated individual shall be deemed to the covered service member’s only next of kin for FMLA purpos es.
 
 
 “Parent”  includes biological, foster, stepparent  and adoptive parents, legal guardian or other 
person who stood in loco parentis to the associate but not parents -in-law. 
 “Serious Health Condition”  means an illness, injury, impairment or physical or mental 
condition that requires either in- patient care or continuing treatment or supervision by a 
health care  
provider or as defined by State or Federal law. Continuing treatment by a health care provider 
means any one of the following:  
(1) Incapacity and treatment. A period of incapacity  of more than three (3) 
consecutive, full calendar  days,  and any subsequent  treatment  or period of 
incapacity  relating to the same condition, that also involves:  
a. Treatment two or more times, within 30 days of the first day of 
incapacity, unless  extenuating circumstances exist,  by a health  care 
provider,  by a nurse under direct supervision of a health care provider, 
or by a provider of health care services (e.g., physical therapist) under 
orders of, or on referral by, a health care provider;  or 
b. Treatment by a health care provider on at least one occasion, which 
results in  a regiment  of continuing treatment  under the supervision of the 
health care provider.  
c. The requirement in paragraphs (1)(i) and (ii) of this definition for 
treatment by a health  care provider  means  an in-person visit to a health 
care provider.  The first in -person treatment visit must take place within 
seven days of the first day of incapacity.  
d. Whether  additional  treatment  visits  or a regimen of continuing treatment  
is necessary  within  the 30-day period shall be determined  by the health  
care provider.  
e. The term “extenuating circumstances” in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition 
means  circumstances  beyond  the associate’s  control  that prevent  the 
follow - up visit from occurring as planned by the health care provider. 
Whether a given set of circumstances are extenuating depends on the 
facts.  
(2) Pregnancy  or prenatal  care. Any  period of incapacity  due to pregnancy,  
or for prenatal  care.     
 
44 
 (3) Chronic  conditions.  Any period  of incapacity  or treatment  for such  incapacity  due 
to a chronic  serious  health  condition.  A chronic  serious  health condition  is one 
which:  
a. Requires  periodic  visits  (defined as at least  twice  a year)  for treatment  
by a health care provider,  or by a nurse  under  direct  supervision of a 
health care provider;  
b. Continues  over an extended period of time (including  recurring episodes  
of a single underlying condition);  and 
c. May cause episodic rather than a continuing period of incapacity  (e.g.,  
asthma, diabetes, epilepsy, etc.).  
(4) Permanent  or long-term due to a condition  for which  treatment  may not be 
effective. The associate or family member must be under the continuing 
supervision of, but need not be receiving  active  treatment  by, a health care 
provider.  Examples  include Alzheimer’s, a severe stroke, or the terminal stages 
of a disease.  
(5) Conditions requiring multiple treatments. Any period of absence to receive 
multiple treatments  (including any period of recovery  therefrom)  by a health 
care provider  or by  a provider  of health care services  under  orders  of, or on 
referral  by, a health  care provider,  for: 
a. Restorative surgery after an accident or other injury;  or 
b. A condition that would likely result in a period of incapacity for more 
than three consecutive full calendar  days  in the absence of medical  
intervention or treatment, such as cancer (chemotherapy, radiation, etc.), 
severe arthritis (physical therapy), kidney disease  (dialysis).  
(6) Absences attributable to incapacity under paragraphs (2) or (3) of this definition 
qualify for FMLA leave even though the associate or the covered family 
member does  not receive treatment  from a health  care provider  during the 
absence,  and even if the absence does not last more than three consecutive full 
calendar days. For example, an associate with asthma  may be unable to report  
for work  due to the onset of an asthma attack or because the associate’s health 
care provider has advised the associate to stay home when the pollen count 
exceeds a certain level. An associate who is pregnant may be unable to work 
because of severe morning sickness.  
(7) In the case of a member of the Armed Forces (including a member of the 
National Guard or Reserves), Serious Health Condition means an injury or 
illness that was incurred by the member  in line of duty on active  duty in the 
Armed  Forces  (or existed before the beginning of the member’s active duty and 
was aggravated by service in line of duty on active duty in the Armed Forces) 
and that may render the member medically  unfit to perform  the duties  of the 
member’s  office,  grade,  rank,  or rating.  
(8) In the case of a veteran who was a member of the Armed Forces (including a 
member of the National Guard or Reserves) means a qualifying (as defined by 
the Secretary of Labor) injury or illness that was incurred by the member in line 
of duty on active  duty in the Armed  Forces  (or existed  before  the beginning  of 
the member’s  
active duty and was aggravated by service in line of duty on active duty in the    
 
45 
 Armed Forces) and that manifested itself before or after the member became a 
veteran.  
 
Safety and Compliance  
Employment Requirements  
 
As a condition of employment, the employer is allowed to take a specimen of the associate’s hair, 
urine, or blood and submit it for pre -employment, random, or reasonable suspicion drug test screen. All 
new hires will also be required to undergo a background check and TB testing if working in direct patient care. According to the Texas Department of State Health Services, “Part -time, temporary, 
contract, and full - time Health care workers (HCWs) should be included in TB screening programs. All 
HCWs who have duties that involve face- to-face contact with patients with suspected or confirmed TB 
disease (including transport staff) should be included in a TB screening program”.
 
 
Job Descriptions  
 
MD Billing  attempts to maintain a job description for each position. Associate  job descriptions can be 
found in the documents section of your online Paycom portal.  Job descriptions prepared by MD Billing  
serve as an outline only. Due to the needs of business,  you may be required to perform job duties not 
within your written job description. Furthermore, the Company may have to revise, add to, or delete from your job duties according to company needs. On occasion, the Company may  need to revise job 
descriptions with or without advance notice to the associate.
 
 
If you have any questions regarding your job description, or the scope of your duties, please speak with your supervisor or Human Resources.
 
 
Mandatory Training  
 
All associates including the directors/managers are required to attend mandatory safety and 
compliance trainings. These trainings have been designed for the associates to have proper 
knowledge of the safety and compliance laws at the workplace. The human resources department will coordinate with all associates and supervisors on a regular basis in order to conduct these trainings. 
The trainings are web -based and provided to each associate. The associates are expected to pay 
close attention to these trainings and are expected to learn their rights and responsibilities at the 
workplace.
 
 
Mandatory Certification and Licensure Requirements  
 
It is the sole responsibility of the associate(s) to keep their licensure and certification such as Nurse Practitioner/Register ed Nurse/Licensed Vocational Nurse/Certified Hyperbaric Technician/Medical 
Assistant and any others that apply updated, including updated Basic Life Support (BLS) and Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) cards. If the associate is using their personal vehicle or a co- 
worker's vehicle during work hours, they are required to have a valid driver's license and adequate auto insurance.
 
 
Associates found in violation of the aforementioned certification and licensure requirements (including 
driver's license and auto insurance requirements) will face disciplinary action up to and including 
termination from employment.  
 
     
 
46 
 Safety Policy Statement  
 
It is the policy of this Company to provide our associates with a safe workplace, safety equipment, and 
the proper materials to complete assignments safely. It is also the policy of this Company to insist that 
each associate perform their work assignment safely. All associates are expected to use safe work 
methods and practices at all times. It is the policy of this Company to enforce safety standards established by the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA), the host facility and any other 
governing aut hority.
 
 
Associates have the right to expect to be provided with a safe workplace, and associates have the right 
to be provided with proper and safe equipment. Maintaining a safe workplace, associate use of proper 
and safe equipment, and associate adherence to safe work practices and procedures will eliminate or control hazards to life and health. It is the responsibility of associates to observe all Safety Policies and Procedures established by this Company. It is also the responsibility of an associate to report any 
hazardous condition or unsafe conduct to their supervisor.
 
 
This Company will:  
 
• Assign  a competent  person  as Safety  Director /Officer  from within  the staff  
• Conduct workplace safety training for associates  
 
Summary  
 
This Company will do all that is reasonably possible to protect our associates from injury, prevent 
property damage, and prevent harm to our clients and the public.  
 
General Safety Rules  
 
• In case of emergency, please call 911 immediately.  
• Immediately report all unsafe acts or conditions to your supervisor.  
• Immediately report all accidents, incidents, or injuries to your  supervisor.  
• Cooperate fully with any investigator of an accident or  incident.  
• Operate only the equipment  assigned to you and only that equipment  for which  you have been 
trained to operate.  
• Never service or repair any moving or running equipment.  
• Before  dismounting,  always  let the equipment  come  to a complete  stop,  engage all safety  
devices such as emergency brake, gear shift lock, boom lock,  etc. 
• Always use the equipment's seat  belts.  
• Never disable or alter equipment safety  devices.  
• Immediately  report  unsafe  tools,  frayed  electrical  cords,  or unguarded equipment  to your 
supervisor.  
• Always wear the personal protective equipment  provided.  
• Horseplay and fighting are prohibited.  
• Abuse of prescription or non- prescription drugs  is prohibited.  
• Use or possession  of illegal drugs is prohibited.  
• Sale or purchase of illegal drugs or intoxicants  is prohibited.  
• Arrival  at the workplace while  under  the influence of drugs  or intoxicants  is prohibited.  
 
All associates have a safety responsibility to themselves and to their fellow workers. The above- listed  
safety rules will be strictly enforced. Violations of these rules can result in disciplinary action up to and 
including termination of employment.  
 
Emergency Procedures  
 
Reporting Procedures – In case of incidents requiring emergency medical attention to associates or 
persons outside the company (including contractors, visitors, or the public) CALL 911 . A personal    
 
47 
 injury report must be completed and signe d by a supervisor before the end of the shift for any injury 
occurring on these premises. Should the associate not be able to complete the personal injury report, 
the associate’s supervisor should complete the report and note the associate was not availabl e for 
signature.  
 
Protection of Property – In case of incidents resulting in major fires, explosions or casualty losses, with 
or without injury, CALL 911 . 
 
Notify supervisor and / or management immediately in any fire or medical emergency situation.  
 Medi cal Emergency for Injured Associates (non-fatal or non-life threatening):
 
• Notify the supervisor  immediately.  
• Provide first aid only if trained and certified to do  so 
 
If not certified  in f irst aid, do not attempt  to move an injured person  
 
 
In Case of Injury  
Injuries which are life threatening, such as stopped breathing, spurting blood, unconsciousness, broken bones, or other severe trauma require immediate assistance. Call 911 immediately and stay on the line 
to give the operator the necessary informat ion. Unless you have been trained and certified in First Aid 
or CPR, any actions you take may be more harmful than helpful to the victim. Do not move the victim 
unless there are other events threatening their life and yours, such as fire or possible explos ion.
 
 
First Aid Kits  
First Aid Kits are located within the clinic. Supplies in these kits are to be used only for self -treatment 
of minor cuts, minor burns and abrasions unless you are trained and certified in first aid.  
 
Fire Emergency Procedures  
• An associate spotting a f ire should:  
• Activate the f ire alarm and alert other personnel in the area.  
• Call 911. 
• Leave the area quickly,  closing doors  behind you to help contain the f ire and smoke.  
• Go to the nearest exit that is not blocked by f ire. 
• Crawl low, near the floor under the smoke. Test doors before you open them by feeling the 
doorknob  and the space  between the door  and f rame  as high as you can reach with the back  of 
your hand.  
• Follow  directions  f rom f ire and security personnel.  
• Wait in a secure area away  f rom the f ire location  until directed  otherwise by the supervisor,  f ire 
department, or police department  personnel.  
 
Fire Prevention and Controls  
• Work areas shall be kept clean and orderly at all times. Good housekeeping prevents creation 
of f ire hazards and injuries caused by trip hazards, protruding nails, broken glass, and other 
loose debris.  
• Use refuse  can for trash  and NEVER  for disposal  of smoking materials.  
• Do not allow scrap materials or rubbish to accumulate in the work  area.  
• Floors  shall  be kept f ree of dangerous  projections  or obstructions  and shall be maintained 
reasonably f ree of oil, grease, water or debris.  
• Where  operations  produce slippery  conditions,  mats  shall be used to reduce the hazard of 
slipping.  
• Materials and supplies shall be stored in an orderly  manner.  
• Keep aisles and walkways clear and unobstructed.  
• Flammable liquids  and solvents  shall be kept in a proper  container and securely  covered 
except when in actual  use. 
• Containers shall be labeled with the name of the product, and the hazard classification.     
 
48 
 • Do not put anything into an unlabeled container.  
• Smoking  is allowed only in designated areas  outside  any company  building.  In keeping  with the 
company’s  intent  to provide a healthful  work  environment,  smoking is prohibited  throughout  the 
workplace.  
• Fire extinguishers shall  be maintained  in a fully charged  and operable condition  and kept in the 
designated places at all times when not being  used.  
 
 
Hazardous Chemicals and Your Right to Know  
Associates must comply with all Occupational Safety and Health Act’s standards and regulations 
established by the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 and regulations which have been added to this Act in recent years by both States and Federal governments. If you believe that you are being exposed to a known or suspected hazard when working with toxic chemicals or substances, you 
have a right to know about such hazards through Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS). Ask your 
supervisor to review the MSDS with you.
 
 
Safety Enforcement  
 
The following disciplinary actions will be taken whenever an associate violates a safety rule, a safety policy, or safety procedure:
 
 
FIRST OFFENSE: A verbal warning will be issued to the associate.  
 
SECOND OFFENSE: A subsequent offense of a safety violation will result in a written warning  
 
Disciplinary actions, which may be taken, include but are not limited to:  
 
Suspension without pay for up to three (3) days;  or 
Termination  
 
THIRD OFFENSE: A third violation of a safety rule, a safety policy, or procedure may result in 
immediate termination.  
 
The company may utilize the aforementioned procedure to follow the disciplinary process, but it does 
not have to follow the sequence described above.  
 
The associate’s supervisor will document all offenses. Documentation of an associate's violation of a 
safety rule, policy, or procedure will be maintained in the associate's personnel f ile. Any person who 
violates a safety rule, policy, or procedure that results in personal injury or subjects others to physical harm may be immediately terminated.
 
 
On-Site Safety Visits  
Hazard Identification Surveys will be conducted randomly by:  
 
• The Safety  Director/Officer  f rom within  the staff.  
• A Member of Management  
 
Designated persons conducting Hazard Identification Surveys have the responsibility and authority to take immediate corrective action. Designated persons have the authority to stop all operations until corrective action has been com pleted.
 
 
Hazard Identification Survey Objectives:  
• Control or eliminate workplace hazards  
• Collect information as source data to complete a Hazard Recognition  Analysis  
• Acknowledge those who observe safe work  practices  
• Identify  those who do not observe safe work  practices  and suggest  corrective  action     
 
49 
 • Identify safety  violations  
• Correct unsafe conduct or unsafe conditions  
• Individuals  conducting  on-site hazard recognition  surveys  will complete  a written  report  
detailing their f indings.  
• The report will be maintained on file in the Company’s HR office  
 
 
Associate Injury and Claims Reporting  
 
Listed below  are the steps to follow when filing an injury claim and  returning  to work after 
rehabilitation f rom an injury:  
 
Associate Responsibilities  
 
• Report on the job injuries immediately to your  supervisor  
• Complete injury  report  
• Notify your supervisor of the kind of treatment you are to receive for your injury and where the 
treatment  will be performed,  you also should  notify your supervisor  when  you anticipate 
returning to work  
• You should  notify  the human resources  department  of the course of treatment  you are required  
to undergo  
• You should expect  a call f rom your human resources representative and a workers  
comp ensation representative once a week, during your rehabilitation period, to assist you in 
your efforts to return to work and receive rehabilitation at the proper facility by approved 
medical  providers  
• When  you have completed  your rehabilitation  and your doctor has released you to return  to 
work, you must  report  no later than the next work day to your supervisor  for your work  
assignment. You must bring a written release f rom your treating physician stating that you are 
released to return and the restrictions, if any. You will not be allowed to return to work without a 
written  release.  
 
Supervisor Responsibilities  
• Conduct incident and accident investigations  
• Report  f indings,  conclusions,  and recommendations  for corrective  action or disciplinary  action 
to management  
• Document the investigations  
• Forward a copy of incident or accident report to the human resource department  
 
Return to Work Policy  
 
MD Billing  is committed to providing a safe workplace for our associates. Preventing work related 
injuries or illness is our primary goal. We are committed to utilizing our resources to provide a safe 
work environment for everyone. We are also committed to providing prompt, quality medical care and 
returning injured workers to productive employment as soon as possible. Our return- to-work  program 
provides opportunities for an associate, who is injured on the job, to return to work at full duty. If the 
associate is not  physically capable of returning to full duty, we will make every effort to provide a 
modified transitional work position until the associate is able to resume normal duties. All our modified 
work is temporary and intended to facilitate a return to regular work duties when medically feasible. 
These positions may be  
offered at any location, any department, or shift that MD Billing  can accommodate.  
 
An associate who is injured at work must immediately report the incident to their supervisor or call the 
human resources department.  
 
    
 
50 
 Supervisors are required to:  
 
• Complete an incident/accident/injury investigation report and email it to HR immediately.  
• The supervisor should talk to the injured worker on the day of injury and weekly, until  the 
associate returns to work, to provide assistance.  
• Associates  who return  to service  after recovering f rom a workplace injury  may be required  to 
submit  to drug testing.  At that point,  if their drug test result  is positive,  they may be terminated 
immediately.  
• Following  the associate’s  return to work, the supervisor  should periodically  monitor  the 
• associate’s progress to make sure restrictions are being followed carefully. The supervisor shall 
make every effort to provide an appropriate alternative productive work assignment that meets the physical and medical restrictions placed on the injured worker.
 
 
 
Associate Responsibilities:  
 
• Know  the employer’s  safety  and return  to work  policies  and procedures,  which  are outlined in 
your associate handbook.  
• Follow all safety procedures, as reviewed by your supervisor.  
• Report any injury immediately to your supervisor.  
• If medical  attention is necessary,  inform  the treating  doctor that alternative work  may be 
available to accommodate  your physical  abilities.  
• If your doctor restricts you f rom working,  notify  your supervisor  immediately.  
• When your doctor releases you to return to work, report to work on the next  regular shift.  
• If your doctor  orders  medical  restrictions, discuss  return  to work  opportunities  with your 
supervisor.  
• Follow your doctor’s orders and restrictions at home and at work.  
 
Medical Treatment of Associates  
  
Any care provided by an associate to another associate must fall within the parameters of acceptable activities listed in an associate’s contract or employment agreement. Care provided should be in the same manner as that provided to any other person or patient seeking care, similar care such as providing consent to treat and bill for services rendered and documentation must be completed in the medical record of in order for the medical care to be covered under MD Billing ’ liability carrier. Any medical treatment of one 
associate by another associate outside of these circumstances must be approved by a member of the 
executive team and made part of the associate’s personnel record. Treatment would include not only direct 
care or recommendations, it encompasses prescriptions or referrals to another provider as well.  
 
Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act HIPAA  
 
Under HIPAA, patients have significant rights to understand and control how their health information is used, including:  
 
• A clear, written explanation of how the covered entity may use and disclose their health care 
information.  
• Ability to see and get copies of their records, and request amendment.  
• MD Billing  entities and partners are required to obtain patient authorization for non- routine 
disclosures and non- health care purposes. Patients have the right to request restriction on the use 
and disclosure of their information.  
• People will have the right to file a formal complaint with MD Billing  or with Department of Health and 
Huma n Services about violations of the provisions of this rule or the policies and procedures of the 
covered entity.  
 
With few exceptions, an individual’s health information may only be used for health care purposes.     
 
51 
    
PROCEDURE  
  
Violation  
Violation s of Federal and State laws concerning HIPAA can result in significant criminal and civil penalties 
for MD Billing , partners and associates, including imprisonment, fines, penalties, and damages.  
Associates who are found in violation of HIPAA may be subject to corrective action up to and including 
termination. An employee who utilizes MD Billing  medical records to obtain private health information on 
themselves and/or their family members may be violating HIPAA. If an employee needs access to theirs or their family member’s medical record, the employee must request through the Medical Records department.  
 
Reporting Potential or Suspected Violations  
All employees have an ongoing obligation to report concerns about compliance with HIPAA.  
In no event shall any individual who reports a concern be subject to any retribution or retaliation related to a report which they reasonably believed to be true and offered in good faith.  
Confidentiality shall apply to the report and to the person making the report, though investigation of the report may necessitate reasonable disclosure on a “need- to-know” basis.  
Questions regarding a potential or suspected violation should first be reported to the immediate supervisor.  
If it is felt that the matter cannot be discussed with the immediate supervisor, the associate may contact the company compliance officer.  
Protection of Property  
 
Every associate is responsible for helping to make MD Billing  a secure work environment. Upon 
leaving work, lock all desks, lockers, and doors protecting valuable or sensitive material in your work area and report any lost or stolen keys, passes, or other similar devices to your supervisor 
immediately. You should refrain from discussing with non- associates specifics regarding Company 
security systems, alarms, passwords, etc.  
 
We also request that you immediately advise your supervisor of any known or potent ial security risks 
and/or suspicious conduct of associates, customers, or guests of the Company. Safety and security is the responsibility of every associate and we rely on you to help us keep our premises secure.
 
 
Intellectual Property  
 
Confidentiality  
The Company will not release information on associates without the proper release as required by law. 
We will maintain personal information and client company information in strict confidence. Associates’ spouses and friends may not obtain information concerning health conditions, payroll, or other personal 
information without the associate signing the proper release documents. An associate found to be 
sharing confidential company information with other associates or outside of the company will be considered a violation and disciplinary action up to and including termination from employment could 
result.
 
 
Associate Inventions  
Any associate invention created, in whole or in part, during an associate’s work hours, or from the use of the Company’s equipment or facilities, is a “work for hire” and the property of the Company.
 
 
Any associate who intends to develop and maintain property rights in any invention, which relates in any way to the Company’s products or services, is required to obtain a written waiver of t his policy, 
signed by both the associate and Chief Executive Officer.
 
 
Confidentiality and Non- Disclosure of Trade Secrets  
As a condition of employment, Company associates are required to protect the confidentiality of Company trade secrets, proprietary in formation, and confidential Company -related commercially -
sensitive  information (i.e. financial or sales records/reports, marketing or business strategies/plans, 
product  development, customer lists, patents, trademarks, etc.). Access to this information should be    
 
52 
 limited to a “need to know” basis and should not be used for personal benefit, disclosed, or released 
without prior authorization from a supervisor. Any associate who has information that leads them to suspect that an associate or competitor is obtaining such information is required to inform their supervisor or Human Resources.
 
 
Violation of this policy may result in the discipline or termination of any associate, as well as subject the 
associate to civil liability.  
 
Products and Services Knowledge  
As an associate of MD Billing , you are expected to be familiar with the products and services we offer. 
Take every opportunity to learn the interrelationship between your department or division and the 
others of the Company. We consider our associates to be the best reflection of our business brand and 
company success. 
Telephone Use  
 
Our phones are principally used for work -related communications. Unless there is an emergency, 
associates are required to limit telephone calls to business purposes only. Associates should limit 
personal use of the telephone to brief communications during rest periods when possible. Casual conversation with friends and relatives during working hours is strongly discouraged, including 
conversations taking place on personal cell phones. Telephone use is subject to the 
Voicemail/Email/Internet Usage Policy.
 
 
Mail Use  
 
Associates are required to limit usage of the company’s mail service to business purposes only. You 
may not use the Company address to receive personal mail. Do not use the Company postage meter 
for your personal mail. If you notice any suspicious packages or envelopes, please report this to Human Resources immediately.
 
 
Company -Provided Mobile Device Policy  
 
The purpose of this policy is to provide guidance to departments and associates regarding eligibility for 
Company -provided cell phones and plans and the appropriate use of the phone and plan.  
 
An associate must have a legitimate business need for a cell phone/mobile device and the issuance of  
same to the associate must be approved by the associate’s supervisor. The typical, legitimate reasons 
why an associate may need a cell phone/mobile device include frequent traveler needs or when the associate is a member of key personnel who must be immediately reachable in the event of an 
emergency.
 
 
When  the cell phone/mobile  device  is used f or personal  reasons  and the activity  results  in additional  
cost to the Company,  the individual  is responsible  for the cost of that usage,  including all applicable  
taxes.  The associate should  make note of personal  calls and reimburse  the Company  after  review  of 
the monthly  call detail.  
 
If the cell phone/mobile  device  has a f lat rate airtime/data plan,  the user is responsible  for reimbursing  
the Company when personal activities cause the plan threshold to be exceeded. The associate, with 
concurrence of an authorized signer on the account, should determine the amount of personal use 
that caused the usage to exceed the plan and reimburse the Com pany for that amount plus all 
applicable taxes.  
 
The company owns and remains entitled to all cell phone/mobile devices, including all passwords 
controlling access to them. You may not change those passwords except with permission. At the time of employment termination, all such equipment and passwords must be returned to the company in 
operable condition.
 
    
 
53 
 Personal Mobile Device Use  
  
While MD Billing  permits associates to bring personal cell phones and other mobile devices (i.e. smart 
phones, PDAs, tablets, laptops) into the workplace, associates must not permit the use of such devices to 
interfere with their job duties or impact workplace safety and health.   
  
Use of personal cell phones and mobile devices at work can be distracting and disruptive and cause a loss of associate productivity. As a result, associates should primarily use such personal devices during 
nonworking time, such as breaks and meal periods. During this time, associates should use their devices in 
a manner that is courteous to those around them. Outside of nonworking time, use of such devices should be kept at a minimum and limited to emergency use only. Associates with devices that have a camera and/or audio/video recording capability are restricted from using those functions on Company property unless authorized in advance by management or used in a manner consistent with the rights of associates 
to engage in concerted activity.   
  
Associates are expected to comply with Company policies regarding the protection of the employer’s 
confidential and proprietary information when using personal devices.   
 
Associates may have the opportunity to use their personal devices for work purposes. Before using a 
personal device for work -related purposes, an associate must obtain written authorization from their 
supervisor. The use of personal devices is limited to certain associates and may be limited based on 
compatibility of technology. Associates authorized to use a personal device will receive a monthly stipend based on the estimated use of the device. If an associate obtains or currently has a plan that exceeds the monthly stipend, MD Billing  will not be liable for the cost difference.   
  
Noth ing in this policy is intended to prevent associates from engaging in protected concerted activity under 
the NLRA.   
  
Violation of this policy will subject an associate to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment.   
 
Voicemail, Emai l, and Internet Policy  
 
Inappropriate use of corporate systems exposes the Company to risk, it is important to specify exactly what is permitted and what is prohibited. The purpose of this policy is to detail the acceptable use of corporate information tec hnology resources for the protection of all parties involved.
 
The scope of this policy includes any and all use of corporate information resources, including but not 
limited to company assigned voicemail access, computer systems, email, the network, and th e 
corporate Internet connection.  
Policies  
 
Network Access  
As the user will be given access to the corporate network, Internet, and other IT resources, the Company expects the user to use these resources in a responsible manner.
 
 
The user must make a concerted effort to avoid accessing network data, files, and information that are 
not directly related to his or her job function. Existence of access capabilities does not imply permission to use this access.
 
 
Web Browsing and Internet Usage  
The Internet is a network of interconnected computers of which the Company has very little control. 
The user must recognize this when using the Internet and understand that it is a public domain and they can come into contact with information, even inadvertently, that they may find offensive, sexually explicit, or inappropriate, or that may be illegal in some jurisdictions. The user must use the Internet at 
his or her own risk. The Company is specifically not responsible for any information that the user views, 
reads, or downloads from the Internet.
    
 
54 
  
Personal Use  
The Company recognizes that the Internet can be a tool that is useful for both personal and 
professional purposes. Personal usage of company computer systems to access the Internet is 
permitted as long as such usage follows pertinent guidelines elsewhere in this document and does not have a detrimental
 
effect on the Company or on the user's job performance.  
 
Peer -to-Peer File Sharing  
Peer- to-Peer (P2P) file sharing/networking is not allowed on the corporate network under any 
circumstance.  
 
Streaming Media  
Streaming media can use a great deal of network resources and thus must be used carefully. Reasonable use of streaming media is permitted as long as it does not negatively impact the computer 
network or the user' s job performance. Streaming services such as Netflix, Hulu, or other entertainment 
services are not to be used.
 
 
Blogging  
Blogging by the Company's associates is subject to the terms of this policy, whether performed from 
the corporate network, personal s ystems, or other external systems. The user is asked to recognize 
that information posted on a blog immediately becomes publ ic information and thus to exercise 
extreme discretion in the type of information posted. In no blog or website, including blogs or sites 
published from personal or public systems, shall internal company business matters be discussed, confidential data released, or material detrimental to the Company published.
 
 
As long as company policies, as specified herein, are followed, the Company allows the publishing and use of blogs. However, when done from the corporate network or during business hours, blogging must 
either A) be business related, or B) consume no more than a trivial amount of the user’s time and 
network resources. The user as sumes all risks associated with blogging.
 
 
Instant Messaging  
The user should recognize that instant messaging technology, unless specific encryption measures are 
taken, is an insecure medium and should take any necessary steps to follow guidelines on discl osure 
of confidential data. Unencrypted confidential data must never be sent via instant messaging 
technologies.  
 
Bandwidth Usage  
Excessive use of company bandwidth or other computer resources, where not required by job function, 
is not permitted. Large fi le downloads or other bandwidth- intensive tasks that may degrade network  
capacity or performance must be performed during times of low company -wide bandwidth usage, such 
as after regular business hours. The Company may restrict bandwidth for certain servic es deemed 
non- critical to company operations, or as it sees f it to preserve network functionality.  
  
Unacceptable Use 
The following actions shall constitute unacceptable use of the corporate network. This section is not 
exhaustive but is included to provide a frame of reference for types of activities that are deemed 
unacceptable.  
 
Prohibited Actions  
The user may not use the corporate network and/or systems to:  
 
• Engage  in activity  that is illegal under local,  state,  federal,  or international  law (see section “Use 
for Illegal  Activities”  for more information).  
• Engage  in any activities that may cause  embarrassment,  loss of reputation,  or other  harm  to    
 
55 
 the Company.  
• View,  access,  download,  store,  or distribute violent,  pornographic,  obscene,  lewd,  or offensive 
material.  
• Disseminate  defamatory,  discriminatory,  vilifying,  sexist,  racist,  abusive,  rude,  annoying,  
insulting, threatening, obscene or otherwise inappropriate messages or media.  
• Engage in activities that cause an invasion of privacy.  
• Engage  in activities that cause disruption  to the workplace environment  or create  a hostile 
workplace.  
• Make fraudulent  offers  for products  or services.  
• Reveal  personal  or network  usernames  or passwords  to others,  including coworkers,  family, f 
riends,  or other members  of the household when  working  f rom home or remote locations.  
 
Circumvention of Security  
Using company -owned or company -provided computer systems to circumvent any security systems, 
authentication systems, user -based systems, or the escalation of privileges is expressly prohibited. 
Knowingly taking any actions to bypass or circumvent company security systems is expressly 
prohibited. This includes disabling or tamperi ng with any company supplied security software, such as 
antivirus/anti - malware software, firewall software, or remote access software.  
 
Use for Illegal Activities  
• No company -owned or company -provided computer systems may be used for activities that are 
considered illegal under local, state, federal, or international law. Such actions may include, but 
are not limited to, the following:  
• Unauthorized Port Scanning.  
• Unauthorized  Network  Hacking,  including:  packet  sniffing,  port scanning,  packet  spoofing,  
denial of service (DoS), wireless  hacking.  
• Any act that may  be considered an attempt  to gain unauthorized access  to or escalate 
privileges on a computer or other electronic  system.  
• Acts of Terrorism.  
• Cybercrime, extortion, or Identity  Theft.  
o Downloading,  storing,  or distributing  any material  prohibited by law. 
o Downloading,  installing,  or distributing  unlicensed or "pirated"  software.  
o Sending  unsolicited bulk email or other messages  deemed  illegal  under applicable 
regulations.  
 
Where illegal activities are discovered, the Company will take all necessary steps to report the activities to the relevant authorities and will cooperate with any resulting prosecution.
 
 
Monitoring and Privacy  
Users should expect no privacy when using the corporate network or company resources. Such use 
may include but is not limited to: transmission and storage of files, data, and messages. The Company reserves the right to monitor any and all use of the computer network. To ensure complianc e with 
company policies this may include the interception and review of any emails, or other messages sent or received; inspection of data stored on personal file directories, hard disks, and removable media; and monitoring of Internet/network/computer usage.
 
 
Responsible Computer and Network Use  
The Company expects users to use the network responsibly. Personal usage of company computer 
systems is permitted as long as such usage follows pertinent guidelines elsewhere in this document 
and does not have a detrimental effect on the Company or on the user's job performance.  
 
Non-Company -Owned Equipment  
Non-company -provided computer equipment is prohibited from being connected to the Company's 
network without prior authorization. Any personal computer equipment that access company resources 
must meet co mpany security standards for endpoint security and data encryption. Examples of this 
are: laptops, notebooks, tablet computers, smartphones, etc.     
 
56 
  
Removable Media  
Personal (non- company -owned) storage devices represent a serious threat to data security and are 
expressly  prohibited f rom being  connected to the Company's  network.  Examples  of this are: USB  
drives, f lash storage,  media  players,  etc. 
 
Storage media supplied by the Company is allowed, however guidelines on confidential/ePHI, such as 
those found in the Confidential Data and Mobile Device Policies, must be strictly followed.  
 
Software Installation  
Installation of non- company -supplied software applications is prohibited. Numerous security threats 
can masquerade as innocuous software - malware,  spyware, and Trojans can all be installed 
inadvertently through games or other  programs.  Alternatively,  software can cause conflicts  or 
have a negative impact on system  performance.  
 
Email Usage  
The Company provides work email for all users that require it. All email sent or received using company email is company property. The following guidelines apply to email usage:
 
 
Email is not inherently secure and no P HI or highly confidential data should be sent via email unless 
using an encrypted email s olution.  
 
Email can be setup on a personal device (cell phone, personal laptop, etc.), however the company 
reserves the right to remotely wipe that device if employment is terminated and it cannot be verified 
that all company email and data was removed from the device.  
 
Social Media Policy  
 
At MD Billing , we recognize the Internet provides unique opportunities to participate in interactive 
discussions and share information using a wide variety of social media. However, use of social media also presents certain risks and carries with it certain responsibilities. To minimize risks to the 
Company, you are expected to follow our guidelines for appropriate use of social media. This policy 
applies to all associates who work for the Company.
 
 
Guidelines  
For purposes of this policy, social media includes all means of communicating or posting information or 
content of any sort on the Internet, including to your own or someone else’s web log or blog, journal or  
diary, personal website, social networking or affinity website, web bulletin board or a chat room, 
whether associated or affiliated with the Company, as well as any other form of electronic communication.
 
Company principles, guidelines, and policies apply to online activities just as they apply to other areas of work. Ultimately, you are solely responsible for what you communicate on social media. You may be 
personally responsible for any litigation that may arise should you make unlawful, defamatory, 
slanderous, or libelous statements against any customer, manager, owner, or associate of the company.
 
 
Know and Follow the Rules  
Ensure your postings are consistent with these guidelines. Postings that include unlawful, 
discriminatory remarks, harassment, and threats of violence or other unlawful conduct will not be 
tolerated and may subject you to disciplinary action up to and including termination.  
 
Be Respectful  
The Company cannot force or mandate respectful and courteous activity by associates on social media during non- working time. If you decide to post complaints or criticism, avoid using statements, 
photographs, video, or audio that reasonably could be viewed as unlawful, slanderous, threatening, or that might constitute unlawful harassment. Examples of such conduct might include defamatory or    
 
57 
 slander ous posts meant to harm someone’s reputation or posts that could contribute to a hostile work  
environment  on the basis  of race,  sex, disability,  age, national  origin,  religion,  veteran status,  or any 
other status  or class protected by law or company  policy.  Your  personal  posts  and social  media activity 
should not reflect upon or  refer to the Company.  
 
Maintain Accuracy and Confidentiality  
When posting information:  
 
• Maintain the confidentiality  of Company  trade  secrets,  intellectual  property,  and confidential 
Company -related commercially -sensitive  information (i.e. f inancial  or sales  records/reports, 
marketing or business strategies/plans, product development, customer lists, patents, 
trademarks,  etc.).  
• Do not create a link f rom your personal  blog,  website,  or other  social  networking site to a 
Company website that identifies you as speaking on behalf of the Company.  
• Never represent  yourself as  a spokesperson  for the Company.  If the Company  is a subject  of 
the content  you are creating, do not represent  yourself  as speaking on the Company’s  behalf.  
Make it clear  in your social  media  activity that you are speaking on your own behalf.  
• Respect copyright,  trademark,  third-party  rights,  and similar  laws and use such  protected 
information in compliance  with applicable  legal  standards.  
 
Using Social Media at Work  
Do not use social media while on your work time, unless  it is work related as authorized by your 
manager or consistent with policies that cover Company -owned equipment.  
 
Media Contacts  
If you are not authorized to speak on behalf of the Company, do not speak to the media on the  
Company’s behalf. Direct all media inquiries for official Company responses to Human Resources.  
 
Retaliation and Associate Rights  
Retaliation or any other negative action is prohibited against an associate who, based on a reasonable 
belief, reports a possible deviation from this policy or cooperates in an investigation. Any associate who retaliates against another associate for reporting a possible deviation from this policy or for cooperating in an investigation will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
 
 
Nothing in this policy is designed to interfere with, restrain, or prevent associate communications 
regarding wages, hours, or other terms and conditions of employment, or to restrain associates in 
exercising any other right protected by law. Associates have the right to engage in or refrain from such activities. 
 
Password Policy and Requirements  
 
Password Construction  
The best security against a password incident is simple: follow a sound password construction strategy. The organization mandates that users  adhere to the following guidelines on password 
construction:
 
• Passwords must be at least 12  characters.  
• Passwords must be comprised of a mix of upper - and lower- case characters.  
• Passwords  must  not be single words  that can be found  in a dictionary  (passphrases  are ok). 
• Passwords  must  not be comprised  of an obvious  keyboard  sequence (i.e., qwerty)  
• Passwords  must  not include "guessable" data such  as personal  information about  yourself,  
your spouse,  your pet, your children,  birthdays,  addresses,  phone numbers,  locations,  etc. 
• Ideally, place yourself  in a well-known area (your  office,  living  room,  etc) and pick 4 unrelated, 
random  objects. That’s your password. By using a familiar space, you can easily place 
yourself back in the situation and recall what you picked, making your password easy to 
remember.  
    
 
58 
 Confidentiality  
Passwords are considered confidential data and treated with the same discretion as any of the 
organization's proprietary information. The following guidelines apply to the confidentiality of organization passwords:
 
 
• Users must not disclose their passwords to anyone.  
• Users must not share their passwords with others (co-workers, supervisors, family,  etc.).  
• Users must not write down their passwords and leave them  unsecured.  
• Users must not check the "save password" box when authenticating to applications.  
• Users  must  not use the same  password for different  systems and/or  accounts.  
• Users must not send passwords via email.  
• Users must not re -use passwords.  
 
Change Frequency  
To maintain good security, passwords must be periodically changed. This limits the damage an attacker can do as well as helps to frustrate and slow brute force attempts. At a minimum, users must change passwords every 360 days.  The organization may use software that enforces this policy by 
expiring users' passwords after this time period. When selecting a new password, users must not 
select a password that is substantially the same as, or similar to, the previous password.
 
 
Comp uter Security and Copying of Software  
 
Software programs purchased and provided by the Company are to be used only for creating, 
researching, and processing Company -related materials. By using the Company’s hardware, software, 
and networking systems, you assume personal responsibility for their use and agree to comply with 
this policy and other applicable Company policies, as well as city, state, and federal laws and 
regulations.  
 
All software acquired for, or on behalf of, the Company or developed by Company associates or contract personnel on behalf of the Company is and shall be deemed Company property. It is the 
policy of the Company to respect all computer software rights and to adhere to the terms of all software 
licenses to which the Company is a party. The Director of Information Technology is responsible for enforcing these guidelines.
 
 
Company users may not illegally duplicate any licensed software or related documentation. Unauthorized duplication of software may subject users and/or the Company to both civil and criminal 
penalties under the United States Copyright Act. To purchase software, users must obtain the approval of their manager. All software acquired by the company must be purchased through the Information Technology Department.
 
 
Users may not duplicate, copy, or give software to any outsiders including clients, contractors, customers, and others. Company users may use software on local area networks or on multiple 
machines only in accordance with applicable license agreements entered into by the Company.
 
 
Privacy and Right to Inspect  
 
Company property, including but not limited to, lockers, phones, computers, tablets, desks, workplace 
areas, vehicles, or machinery, remains under the control of the Company and is subject to inspection 
at any time without notice to the associate and without the associate’s presence. Associates should 
have no expectation of privacy in any of these areas. We assume no responsibility for the loss or 
damage to any associate property maintained on Company premises, including items kept in lockers and desks.
 
 
Any Company provided workspace, including offices,  lockers , or cubicles for the personal possessions 
of its associates should be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. As part of the associate’s 
privilege for use of these accommodations , associates must agree to allow the Company to inspect or 
otherwise gain access to its contents at any time, with or without notice to the associate, and without    
 
59 
 the associate’s presence.  
 
 
Vehicles, Equipment, Tools, or Uniforms on Loan 
 
You are responsible for safekeeping of equipment, tools, or uniforms that are furnished to you. Your 
supervisor may require a deposit. When your employment with the Company is terminated, voluntarily 
or involuntarily, you m ust return equipment, tools, or uniforms that were loaned to you. This policy 
permits your worksite employer to recover the cost of such items when they are furnished without a deposit and not returned upon termination of employment.
 
 
Method of repayment will be in compliance with the Wage and Hour Division regulations under the 
Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). You may be asked to sign a payroll withholding authorization form 
to reimburse your worksite  employer  for missing  items.  The funds  may be withheld f rom your f inal 
paycheck.  
 
Off-Duty Use of Company Property or Premises  
 
Associates may not use Company property for personal use during working time. Associates are responsible for returning Company property in good condition and repairing or replacing any property damaged as the result of personal use or as the result of negligence. This includes using copy machines, computers, Company products, or office supplies for personal use without prior 
authorization.
 
 
It is the policy of the Company to control off duty and non- working hour use of Company facilities either  
for business or personal reasons. Associates are prohibited from using Company facilities during off 
duty or non- working hours without the written consent of their supervisor. Associates using Company 
facilities during off -duty hours or non- Company hours may be required to sign a log- in and log- out 
sheet maintained by the Company or building manager.  
 
Driving Policy  
 
MDB  will strictly enforce the policies governing the use of personal and company -owned vehicles used 
while on company time to ensure that associates have the proper credentials to drive any vehicle on company time, to authorize specific associates the use of company -owned vehicles and the rules and 
policies that will apply for those associates, to ensure that vehicle accidents and property damage are reported correctly and to address parking issues. All associates designated as Authorized Driver and all associates who are directed by a supervisor to drive while on company time.
 
 
Driver’s License  
A valid state driver’s license must be fully in force any time an associate drives any vehicle (personal or company) while on company time as required by state law.
 
 
The temporary suspension or total revocation of the driver’s license by any government authority must be reported to the Human Resources Department immediately.
 
 
Driving while on company time without a valid driver’s license is a violation of company policy and is considered misconduct.
 
 
Insurance Coverage  
Personal vehicle liability insurance coverage is required of all drivers, regardless of whether the vehicle 
is personally, or company owned. The insurance must be fully in force at all times as required by state 
law. Driving on company time without valid insurance coverage is a violation of company policy and considered misconduct.
 
 
Proof of current insurance must be kept on file at all times. Each associate has a limited amount of    
 
60 
 time to respond to the r equests for proof of insurance before driving privileges on company time will be 
suspended.  
 
Driving without current proof of insurance on file is not allowed and can result in suspension of driving 
privileges. Associates who cannot perform job duties without the use of driving privileges may be subject to termination if not corrected.
 
 
Authorized Drivers  
The Human Resources Department will maintain the list of all Authorized Drivers.  
 
Authorized Drivers are determined to be those associates whose job duties require that they travel  
frequently between MDB  locations and other third- party sites in the course of carrying out company - 
related business.  
 
Authorized Drivers will undergo training on an annual basis, and periodically, as deemed necessary to 
satisfy safety requirements of the company. Training will comply with changing state laws and 
insurance requirements.  
 
Authorized Drivers qualify for mileage reimbursement.  
 
Authorized Drivers who experience a change in their mode of transportation, which could negatively 
affect their ability to perform work duties, OR who may no longer be in compliance with policies, are 
required to report these changes to the Human Resources Department.  
 
Personal Vehicles  
Associates are responsible for the maintenance and care of  their personal vehicles. Use of their 
vehicles to transport company property should be done with caution as any related damage is the responsibility of the associate.  
 
Theft of damage of any type to an associate’s vehicle, vehicle used in the course doing company 
business, is the sole responsibility of the associate.  
 
Personal vehicle accidents are the sole responsibility of the associate and not MDB . It is expected 
that associates will take all precautions when driving, loading and unloading, and while parking.  
 
Associates are financially responsible for all moving and non- moving violations in their personal 
vehicle.  
 
Company -Owned Vehicles  
Only authorized associates may drive company -owned vehicles.  
 
Authorized Drivers of company vehicles will comply with all State driving laws and adhere to policies 
regarding the use of company assets.  
 
• The following rules apply to authorized drivers of company -owned vehicles:  
• Personal  use of company -owned vehicle  is NOT  allowed.  Examples  included:  providing  rides  to 
others, making personal deliveries and running personal  errands.  
• No passengers,  other than for legitimate  business  purposes,  shall be allowed to ride in 
company vehicles. Associates who are passengers are limited to those who are Authorized 
Drivers OR who have a legitimate reason to ride as a passenger to carry out company  
business.  
• Under no circumstances shall any passenger be allowed to ride in the bed of trucks, the rear 
section of vans, on vehicle fenders or in any other unsafe manner, including any areas where a 
restraint device in unavailable.  
• Seat belt use is required for everyone at all times when the vehicle is in motion.  
• Smoking in company -owned vehicles IS NOT  permitted.     
 
61 
 • Company -owned  vehicles  should  never be lef t unlocked at any time which  includes  exiting  the 
vehicle to make deliveries or to handle other company  business.  
• All drivers  are responsible  for the safekeeping of vehicle  keys  provided to them  and will pay the 
replacement cost if lost or stolen.  
• All drivers are responsible for the safekeeping of company -provided gasoline credit cards. 
Drivers  are obligated  to immediately  report  lost or stolen card to a Supervisor.  Failure to do so 
may result in disciplinary  action.  
• All drivers  are responsible  for keeping the interior and exterior of vehicles  neat and clean  while  
in their  use. 
• All drivers are always expected to employ safe driving practices and to be alert.  
 
Special Equipment in Company -Owned Vehicles  
Due to safety, efficiency and other business purposes, the Company may use GPS technology to 
monitor the whereabouts of vehicles at all times; associates will be notified of such monitoring.  
 
Cell Phone Usage is Limited to Hands -free Usage ONLY  
Cell phone use is prohibited while  driving  on company  time expect  by use of a hand s-f ree device  in 
either their personal or company  vehicle.  
 
Associates should make necessary calls before or after driving i f a hands -free device is not available 
for use.  
 
Motorcycles/Scooters will not be used as Transportation on Company Time  
Motorcycles or scooters may be driven to and from work; however, this mode of transportation MAY 
NOT be used while on company time.  
 
Associates whose only mode of transportation is a motorcycle or scooter may not be an Authorized Driver.
 
 
Parking Policy  
MDB  reserves the right to designate areas for associate parking on or off premises that, in its 
discretion, provides an adequate number  of spaces for this purpose.  
 
Mileage Reimbursement  
If an associate drives a company -owned vehicle, compensable time for the day will begin at the 
location where the designated vehicle is picked up.  
 
If the company -owned vehicle is unavailable due to repai r needs, or is issued to another driver for 
some reason, then the associate will drive their own vehicle and qualify for mileage reimbursement.  
 
Reporting Moving Violations (on either job or personal time)  
Associates authorized to drive either a company ve hicle or their personal vehicle while on company 
time are required to report the following situations to the Human Resources department:  
 
Any moving violation  or accident  for which  a police  report  is f iled, whether it occurs  on the job or on 
personal time. This includes, but is not limited to the following:  
 
• Speeding violations  
• DUI citations/arrests  
• Vehicle accidents  
• Suspension or cancellation (temporary or permanent) of a driver’s  license.  
• Cancellation of vehicle liability insurance coverage, which is required by state  law. 
 
Any of these situations will necessitate a review of the circumstances surrounding the violations and/or 
accident. Depending on a variety of factors, this may result in non- action or a written warning. In 
extreme cases, however, it might result in revocation of driving privileges while on company time. A    
 
62 
 revocation of driving privileges, depending on the specific job, could lead to disciplinary action up to 
and including termination.  
 
Failure to report any moving violations or accident, suspension or cancellation within five (5) days may 
lead to disciplinary action up to and including termination.  
 
Procedure to Follow for Vehicle Accidents/Property Damage (on the job)  
Company -Owned Vehicle  
• Call direct  supervisor  and to report  accident/damage.  Take  photos  of the accident/ damage or 
have your supervisor do it when they arrive.  
• Call the police and report the accident/property  damage.  
• Obtain names,  addresses,  phone number,  vehicle  identification  number,  license  plate number, 
insurance information and driver license information of individuals  involved.  
• Lock vehicle and leave at scene; or vehicle may be towed.  
• Supervisor will take associate to closest  Occupation  clinic  as soon as possible  for: 
• Drug test (10 -panel  rapid)  
• Breath alcohol  test 
• Physical exam by medical  provider  
• Completion of Incident/Accident/Injury  Report  
• Associate will not drive on the clock until results of drug test are received as negative  
• Associate will return to work if cleared by medical  provider  
 
Personal Vehicle  
• Call direct supervisor and report  accident/damage  
• Call the police and report the accident/property  damage.  
• Obtain names,  addresses,  phone number,  vehicle  identification  number,  license  plate number, 
insurance information and driver license information of individuals  involved.  
• Lock vehicle and leave at scene; or vehicle may be towed.  
• Supervisor will take associate to closest  Occupation  clinic  as soon as possible  for: 
• Drug test (10 -panel  rapid)  
• Breath alcohol  test 
• Physical exam by medical  provider  
• Completion of Incident/Accident/Injury  Report  
• Associate  will not drive  on the clock until results  of drug test are received  as negative  
• Associate will return to work if cleared by medical  provider  
 
Personal Appearance   
  
Your personal appearance reflects on the reputation, integrity, and public image of MD Billing . All associates 
are required to report to work neatly groomed and dressed. You are expected to maintain personal hygiene habits that are generally accepted in the community, including clean clothing, good grooming and personal hygiene, and appropriate attire for the workplace and the work being performed. This may include wearing 
company uniforms or protective safety clothing and equipment, depending upon the job. Use common 
sense and good judgment in determining what to wear to work.   
  
Fragrant products, including but not limited to perfumes, colognes, and scented body lotions or hair products, should be used in moderation out of concern for others with sensitivities or allergies.   
  
The Company will make every effort to reasonably accommodate associates with disabilities or with religious beliefs that make it difficult for them to comply fully with the personal appearance policy. Contact your manager, supervisor, etc. to request a reasonable accommodation.   
  
Failure to comply with the personal appearance standards may result in being sent home to groom or 
change clothes. Frequent violations may result in disciplinary action, up to and including, termination of 
employment.   
     
 
63 
  
 
 
Clinical Associates:   
  
• Required to wear scrubs or business attire  
• Fingernails should be kept clean and neat, no longer than ¼ inch; polish should be neat and free of 
chipping; acrylic nails are not allowed.   
• Footwear should be neat and clean, in good repair, and presentable. Must meet department specific guidelines. No open sandals or crocs,    
• Must follow facility guidelines   
 
Solicita tions and Distribution 
 
MD Billing . prohibits the solicitation , distribution  of literature, products or services, and posting of 
materials during working hours  on the workplace premises by any associate or non- associate, unless 
authorized by senior management.  
 
This policy applies to all associates as well as external visitors, partners and customers that may be on company premises during working hours.
 
 
“Workplace ” refers to any area on premises where associates work (offices, meeting rooms, reception 
etc.) This definition excludes cafeterias, common rooms, hallways or other places where associates 
don’t usually carry out their job duties.  
 
“Working hours ” are any time during which an associate is expected to carry out their job duties. This 
definition excludes meal or rest breaks.  
 
Solicitation is any form of requesting money, support or participation for products, groups, 
organizations or causes which are unrelated to our company. These include but are not limited to:  
Seeking funds  or donations  for a non-profit  organization  
Asking  for signatures  for a petition  
Selling merchandise or  services  
Requesting support for a political candidate  
Engaging in religious  proselytism  
 
Associates may not solicit other associates during working time, except in connection with a Company 
approved or sponsored event. Associates may not distribute literature of any kind during work times, or in any work area at any time, except in connection with a Company -sponsored event. We ask that you 
do not disturb or distract colleagues from their work. We also prohibit offensive solicitation or 
solicitation for personal profit.
 
 
This policy applies in the same manner to all individuals or groups. Our company and managers must 
not allow one group or person to engage in solicitation, while excluding others.  
 
Distribution refers to disseminating literature or material for commercial or political purposes.  
 
The posting of materials or electronic announcements are permitted with approval from Human Resources.
 
 
Violation of this policy should be reported to Human Resources.  
 
 
 
Visitors in the Workplace     
 
64 
  
Visits by non- employees are not allowed unless prior approval is given by the director of operations or other 
senior operations executive.  
  All approval requests are to be submitted to the director of operations (or a designee) via email at least 48 
hours in advance. If it is less than 48 hours, must call for approval and this should be as infrequent as 
possible. The email should state the purpose of the visit and the expected duration the visitor will be on site. 
Director of operations (or a designee) may approve recurring visitors for up to 180 days in duration.  
  All visitors are only allowed to observe and should always be accompanied by an employee. All patient information should be protected, and HIPAA policies observed. Visitors are not authorized to use company 
resources such as computers, supplies, or equipment.  
 
  Upon the day of arrival, the visitor must check in at the front desk and present ID and sign- in including time 
of arrival and sign- out when leaving.  
  
Visitors are required to leave the premises if directed to do so by facility personnel.  
  
Visits by off -duty employees are discouraged and should be limited.  
  Visits by employees on leave are not allowed until the employee is released from care and allowed to return to work unless approved by human resources and a senior level executive.  
  Former employees are not allowed in any patient care area of the facility without prior approval from the director of operations or a senior level executive.  
  Vendors, suppliers, and contractors  are considered visitors and should be subject to all rules outlined in this 
policy.  
  Visits by friends and family members are not allowed.  
  Recording devices are not allowed in the facilities by visitors.  
  
Supervisors’ responsibilities include enforcing all policies and procedures including this visitor policy.  
  
Violations of visitor policies will result in visitors’ privileges being revoked and future visits will be restricted at the   direction of the director of operations and/or a senior level executive.  
 
Company Social Events   
  
MD Billing  recognizes that there are occasions throughout the course of the year where associates may 
wish to arrange social functions on company premises during regular business hours to celebrate special events. Determined by the nature of these events, it may be the case that these social events are attended by clients, suppliers and associates alike. This policy sets out parameters and procedures for such events. 
Nothing in this policy should be read to limit the rights of associates under federal, state or local  labor and 
employment laws. Further, the Company reserves its right to maintain and enforce valid no- solicitation and 
no-distribution rules consistent with federal labor laws.   
  
Although such social events will usually take place away from the workplace and may fall outside of normal 
working hours, the Company's standard code of conduct applies to such events. Whilst it is not the 
Company’s intention to place unnecessary restrictions on associates' enjoyment at such events, for the 
avoidance of doubt, it is in everyone's interest that certain rules of conduct for the protection and comfort of all are observed.   
  
Associates who attend work -related social events must observe and respect to the following guidelines and 
principles:      
 
65 
   
• Improper or other unacceptable behavior will not be tolerated.   
• Alcohol should only be consumed in moderation at work -related social events, regardless and 
irrespective of whether the Company, client or supplier is providing or paying for the drinks.   
• It is strictly forbidden for any associate to engage in the use or supply of illegal drugs, including 
cannabis, at any work -related social event whether on Company premises or not.   
• The Company's policy on harassment and bullying applies to work -related social events.   
• Associates shou ld not say or do anything at a work -related social event that could offend, intimidate, 
embarrass or upset any other person, whether as a joke or not.   
• Swearing and intemperate language are unacceptable at work -related social events.   
• Associates must not behave in any way at any work -related social event that could bring the 
Company, its clients or suppliers name into disrepute.   
  
Any breach of the above rules will render the associate liable to disciplinary action under the Company's disciplinary procedure, up to and including summary dismissal where any offence is deemed to constitute gross misconduct. Unacceptable behavior that might result in a gross misconduct dismissal would include excessive drunkenness, the use or distribution of illegal drugs, unlawful or inappropriate harassment, violence, serious verbal abuse, or assault of either another associate or a third party such as a guest or a 
member of the waiting or bar staff.   
  
Associates are expected to conduct themselves behaviorally and socially as  they would in a workplace 
setting. Managers alike are expected to intervene as necessary if conduct becomes unprofessional. These 
guidelines and principles are in place for the benefit of all associates and to ensure that everyone can enjoy 
work -related social events in a friendly, welcomed and pleasant atmosphere, without fear of being made to 
feel uncomfortable by another associate's conduct.    
  
Health & Safety  
In accordance with the Company’s health and safety policy, you have a general duty to take reasonable 
care of your own health and safety and that of others who may be affected by your acts or omissions. 
Please bear this in mind when consuming alcohol.   
  
Travel   
Associates who intend to drive following a social event, should take all necessary and appropriate steps to 
ensure that they are well within the legal limits to be driving. The Company is not responsible for   
determining an individual’s suitability to drive. Any decision to do so, is entirely at the individual’s discretion.   
  
Associates should be aware that the consequences of driving whilst under the influence of alcohol are severe.   
  
Company car drivers are forbidden from driving any company supplied vehicle, where they have consumed 
any level of alcohol.   
  
If you are not intending to drive, please make travel arrangements in advance of the event, for example by 
public transport or a reputable licensed taxi service.   
  
Accommodation   
Where overnight accommodation is provided, please refer to the Company Expenses Policy for f urther 
details and information.   
  
 
  
 
Third Party Disclosures  
 
From time to time, our Company may become involved in news stories or potential or actual legal    
 
66 
 proceedings of various kinds. When that happens, lawyers, former associates, newspapers, law  
enforcement agencies, and other outside persons may contact our associates to obtain information 
about the incident or the actual or potential lawsuit. The Company  strives to anticipate and manage 
crisis situations in  order to reduce disruption to our associates and to maintain our reputation as a high-
quality company.  
 
In order to avoid providing inaccurate, incomplete or Material Information to outside sources, all outside inquiries regarding the Company or its associates, directors or officers or operations must be referred to an Authorized Spokesperson. Only an Authorized Spokesperson is authorized to make or approve public statements pertaining to the Company or  its associates, directors or officers or operations. 
Specifically, no Insider, other than an Authorized Spokesperson, may communicate Material, Nonpublic Information of the Company to a Third Party.  
 
If you receive such contact, you should answer all media/reporter questions like this: “I am not authorized to comment for MD Billing ,” or, “I do not have the information you want. Let me have our 
Authorized Spokesperson contact you.” To best serve these objectives, the company will respond to the news media in a timely and professional manner only through the authorized spokespersons.
 
 
An insider shall not discuss financial or operational information about competitors. An Authorized Spokesperson should say  that the Company does not comment about its competitors and suggest that 
the Third Party call the competitor directly.
 
 
An insider may not comment on rumors. An Authorized Spokesperson is permitted to state that the 
Company has a policy against commenting on rumors.  
 
Selective disclosure of Material, Nonpublic Information in any forum other than the approved methods 
listed above, and by any individual other than an Authorized Spokesperson, and without the express approval of the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating Officer is considered a violation of this Policy. A violation of this Policy may result in progressive disciplinary action up to and including 
termination of employment.
 
 
If you have any questions about this policy or are not certain what to do when such a contact is made, 
please contact the Human Resources Department.  
 
 
Standards of Conduct  
Disciplinary Process  
 
Violation of Company policies or procedures may result in disciplinary action including demotion, transfer, leave without pay, or termination of employment. The Company encourages a system of progressive discipline depending on the type of prohibited conduct. However, the Company is not required to engage in progressive discipline and may discipline or terminate an associate where they 
violate the rules of conduct or where the quality or value of the associate’s work fails to meet 
expectations at any time.  
 
Again, any attempt at progressive discipline does not imply that your employment is anything other 
than on an “at will” basis.  
 
Discipline in the workplace is essential for the efficient and orderly operations of the business. 
Discipline should never be used as punishment, but to correct an unacceptable behavior or poor work 
performance. Associates are expected to demonstrate good judgment, ethical personal behavior and common sense. If your conduct as an associate comes into question, you can expect to be disciplined to correct the behavior. There are levels of discipline, which will give an associate an opportunity to correct behavior before imposing the most severe form of discipline, which is termination from    
 
67 
 employment.  
 
In appropriate circumstances, management will provide the associate first with a verbal warning, then 
with one or more written warnings, and if the conduct is  not sufficiently altered, eventual demotion, 
transfer,  forced leave, or termination of employment. Your supervisor will make every effort possible to 
allow you to respond to any disciplinary action taken. Understand that while the Company is concerned 
with consistent enforcement of our policies, the Company is not obligated to follow any disciplinary or 
grievance procedure and that depending on the circumstances, associates may be disciplined or 
terminated without any prior warning or procedure.  
 
Standards  of Conduct  
 
MD Billing  wishes to create a work environment that promotes job satisfaction, respect, responsibility, 
integrity, and value for all of our associates, clients, customers, and other stakeholders. Every associate has a shared responsibility toward improving the quality of our work environment. By deciding to work at this Company, you agree to follow the Company’s rules.
 
While it is impossible to list every item that could be considered misconduct in the workplace, what is 
outlined here is a list of common- sense infractions that could result in discipline, up to and including 
immediate termination of employment. This policy is not intended to limit the Company’s right to 
discipline or discharge associates for any reason permitted by law. In fact, while we value our asso ciates, the Company retains the right to terminate an associate on an “at -will” basis.
 
 
General Standards of Conduct  
The following standards are common sense rules that, when violated, will result in the opportunity for the associate to change their behavior, but will subject the associate to termination if, after given an opportunity, their conduct does not improve.
 
 
• Associates must be at their workstations prepared to work at the beginning of their shift.  
• Associates are not permitted to conduct personal or non- work -related business at the work site 
before or after their shift.  
• Failure to dress according to company  policy  
• Each associate is responsible for his / her time records.  
• Associates must notify their supervisor when they are unable to report to work on time.  
• Smoking is permitted in designated areas  only.  
• Associates must follow  safety policies and procedures.  
• Associates must use personal protective equipment (PPE) if required, in their work  area.  
• All injuries must be reported regardless of how minor they  appear.  
• All fire regulations must be observed.  
• Associates are not allowed to work overtime, unless approved by their supervisor.  
• Mechanical breakdown of equipment must be reported.  
• Tools must be maintained in serviceable condition and used properly.  
• Company owned or leased vehicles must be inspected daily before  use. 
• Housekeeping is an associate’s responsibility; keep your work area clean.  
• Under no circumstances are you permitted to leave your department  position  without  prior 
approval  from your supervisor.  
• Associates  are required  to keep all correspondence and interaction at the workplace site and 
during work hours limited to business  only.  
• Representatives visit our clinics f rom drug and pharmaceutical companies, home health 
agencies,  DME  agencies,  product  vendor  agencies,  services providing agencies  and so on. 
Associates are not allowed to interact and/or correspond with the aforementioned 
representative(s) unless directed and authorized by their supervisor.  
 
Nothing in this policy is intended to limit associate rights under the National Labor Relations Act.  
 
Major Standards of Conduct  
The following conduct may result in immediate termination without the benefit of progressive discipline.    
 
68 
 Violations of these standards are considered unforgivable and an opportunity to correct the 
unacceptable behavior may not be offered.  
 
• Theft of company  property  
• Theft of fellow associate’s  property  
• Submitting a false record of hours  worked  
• Willful destruction of company  property  
• Conviction of a major  crime  
• Falsifying employment  information  
• Disclosure of Company  trade  secrets  and proprietary  and confidential  information of the 
Company  or its customers,  contractors,  suppliers,  or vendors.  
• Refusal  or failure to follow  directions  or to perform  a requested or required  job task 
• Refusal or failure to follow safety rules and procedures  
• Excessive tardiness or absences  
• Lending keys or key cards to Company property to unauthorized persons  
• Gross misconduct:  outrageous behavior serious enough to warrant  dismissal  
• Deliberate violation of safety  rules  
• Offensive  or indecent  personal  conduct  between associates  and/or  with patients  that is 
disruptive to the company business, including the use of obscene or harassing language.  
• Falsifying company  records  
• Job abandonment  
• Conflict of interest  
• In order to improve efficiency,  profitability,  and quality  patient  care outcomes  associates  may 
be transferred  from one business  location/clinic  to another on a periodic  basis.  When  an 
associate, assigned to be transferred f rom one clinic to another, refuses to be transferred, it 
will be considered as an associate’s  willful separation f rom employment,  and will also be 
considered as job abandonment.  
• Exhibition  of low standard(s) of performance.  
• Carelessness  and negligence  in completing  task(s)  and assignment(s),  as assigned by the 
supervisor, in a timely, efficient, and effective  manner.  
• Accepting monetary  gifts  
• Discussing  patients’  personal,  private,  health- related,  and financial situation.  
• Insubordination: Associates are expected to follow the company’s chain -of-command when 
addressing their grievances, concerns, and/or complaints. Not following the proper chain- of- 
command will be considered as insubordination and may lead to immediate termination. 
Insubordination is also considered to have occurred when the associate(s) unreasonably 
refuses to obey orders or follow the instructions of their supervisor(s). It also is considered to 
have occurred when the associate(s), through hi s/her actions or words, shows disrespect 
toward his/her  supervisor(s).  
• An associate who calls their supervisor stating that they will be coming late to work but does  
not show  up to work  at all and does  not notify  that they  will be absent for rest of the day will be 
subject  to disciplinary  action up to and/or including termination.  
 
Progressive Discipline  
 
When an associate has been found to have violated one of the General Standards of Conduct  or has 
exhibited a low standard of work performance, they may be disciplined using progressive discipline. This process is normally used for violations that are less serious in nature and where unforeseen circumstances may have influenced the associate’s conduct. When applying this process, the 
associate must be made to understand specifically what standard was violated, what actions are required to correct the behavior, and what action will be taken if the behavior is not corrected. MD 
Billing  reserves th e sole discretion in determining when and how progressive discipline will be 
delivered and at what step disciplined will be administered.
 
 
1st Offense: Verbal Warning  
Associate is counseled and signs the disciplinary action form. (Associate should be told what his/her    
 
69 
 conduct was, the steps needed to correct it, and how long they have to make the correction).  
 
2nd Offense: Written Warning  
The unacceptable conduct was not corrected, and this is the second warning. Explain what actions are 
needed to correct the conduct and how long they have to make the correction. Explain that the next warning will result in termination. This written document (associate signed) will be placed in the
 
associate’s personnel file.  
 
3rd Offense: Written Warning with Termination  
Explain that the associate’s conduct has not improved,  and they are being terminated. Document this 
action and place it in the associate’s personnel file.  
 
Unpaid Suspension from Work  
As part of the disciplinary process, associate(s) could be s uspended from work without pay for up to 
three  days at any time during the progressive discipline process.  
 
Note: The foregoing Standards of Conduct are not intended to be inclusive of the required discipline, proper standards of conduct or obligations which associates must observe at all times. The Standards 
of Conduct are not intended to limit the proper rights of anyone but are intended to protect the rights of 
everyone. The company may utilize the procedure to follow the progressive discipline process, but it does not have to follow the sequence described above.
 
 
Immediate Suspension and/or Termination 
 
If an associate violates one of the Major Standards of Conduct, they are subject to immediate termination. 
The supervisor may suspend the associate pending investigation and review by the Human Resources Department.  
The Human Resources representative will notify the associate of which Standard of Conduct 
they violated and will take a statement from them and any witnesses, if present, that observed the action. When possible, have a witness sign the appropriate column on the Corrective Action form. In the eve nt 
of termination, the associate will be paid any wages due in accordance with the appropriate State Payday 
Law.
 
 
In the event an associate is perceived to be inappropriately terminated, the associate has the right and 
responsibility of filing a grievance,  following the Grievance Procedure, with the Human Resource 
Department. The associate must make a statement in writing to the Human Resources Department within 3 days of termination. The Human Resources Department, in conjunction with the Executive team wi ll 
make a determination within 7 days of receipt of the grievance.
 
 
Grievance Procedure  
 
MD Billing  recognizes that there are times when the need arises for associates to express concerns or 
complaints in a formal manner. The following procedures will ensure that associates receive a fair and unbiased review of workplace concerns. Instances where this procedure may be effective includes harassment, inappropriate conduct, non- compliance or unreasonable disciplinary action/termination.
 
 
Procedures  
 
Step 1: In formal discussion with supervisor  
Associate concerns should first be discussed with the associate's immediate supervisor. Many concerns can be resolved informally when an associate and supervisor take time to review the concern and discuss 
options to address the issue.
 
 
 
Step 2: Written complaint to supervisor  
If the associate is not satisfied with the results of the informal discussion in Step 1, the associate may submit a written complaint within five days to his or her immediate supervisor to include:
    
 
70 
 The nature of the grievance.  
Detailed information including evidence of the issue, witnesses, related policies,  etc. 
The remedy or outcome  desired.  
 
The immediate supervisor will have five working days to respond to the associate in writing.  
If the associate complaint is regarding illegal harassment, discrimination or retaliation, the associate 
should submit the written complaint directly to Human Resources.  
 
 
Step 3: Written complaint to senior management  
If the associate is not satisfied with the response from the immediate supervisor, the associate may submit a written complaint to senior management for review. A copy should also be sent to Human 
Resources. The request for review should include:  
 
An explanation  of the grievance and details  of all previous  efforts to resolve the issue.  
A copy of the written complaint submitted to the immediate supervisor.  
A copy  of the immediate supervisor's written  response  to the associate's  complaint.  
Detailed information regarding the associate's  dissatisfaction  with the immediate  supervisor's 
response.  
 
Senior management will consult with the associate's immediate supervisor, Human Resources and any 
other relevant parties to evaluate the grievance and provide a written response to the associate wi thin 
five days. The outcome of the review by senior management will be final unless new evidence or other 
circumstances warrant additional review of the complaint.  
 
Recordkeeping  
Human resources will maintain records of the grievance process confidentially  and securely.  
 
Tobacco and Vape -Free Workplace Policy  
 
MD Billing  is concerned about the effect that smoking and secondhand smoke inhalation can have on its 
associates and clients. Smoking in the office, client areas, and restrooms is strictly prohibited. This policy 
includes traditional smoking and the use of alternate nicotine delivery system and electronic smoking 
devices such as e- cigarettes, e- pipe, e- hookahs, e- cigars or any such device.   
  
Smoking is prohibited except for in designated areas and on break or meal periods.   
 
Drug and Alcohol Policy  
 
MD Billing  consi ders drug and alcohol abuse a serious matter that will not be tolerated. The Company 
absolutely prohibits associates from using, selling, possessing, or being under the influence of illegal drugs, alcohol, or a controlled substance or prescription drug not  medically authorized while at their 
job, on Company property, or while on work time.
 
 
Therefore, it is the Company’s policy that:  
 
• You may not report  to work  under the inf luence  of alcohol,  illegal drugs,  or any controlled 
substance or prescription drug not  medically authorized.  
• You may not possess or use alcohol,  illegal drugs,  or any controlled substance  or prescription 
drug not medically  authorized while  on company  property  or on company  business.  
  
The Company also cautions against the use of prescribed or over- the-counter medication, which can  
affect your ability to perform your job safely, or the use of prescribed or over- the-counter medication in 
a manner violating the recommended dosage or instructions from the doctor. You must have a valid    
 
71 
 prescription for any prescription medication used while working for the Company. Inform your 
supervisor prior to working under the influence of a prescribed or over- the-counter medication that may 
affect your ability to perform your job safely. If the Company determines that the prescribed or over-the-count er medication does not pose a safety risk, you will be allowed to work. Failure to comply with 
these guidelines concerning prescription or over -the-counter medication may result in disciplinary 
action, up to and including termination of employment.  
 
Substa nce Abuse Policy  
 
Associate drug abuse has become a major problem for employers. A person who abuses substances endangers not only him or herself but also endangers everyone they encounter. This company has an obligation to ensure a drug and alcohol -free workplace. To satisfy our obligation to provide a drug and 
alcohol -free workplace, mandatory testing may be required in the following circumstances:
 
 
• Whenever a supervisor observes an individual behaving in a suspect  manner  
• Whenever a person is involved in an incident or  accident  
• Randomly at the discretion of management  
• When associate returns to work after recovering f rom a workplace injury.  
 
Drug testing will be done at company expense. The associate being tested may indicate any 
medications or legal substances being taken which might influence the outcome of the test. Results of 
the test will only be received by the company’s representative/officer. An associate whose test results are positive for drugs, alcohol, or other hazardous substances will be immediately terminated.
 
 
Explanation of Terms:  
Legal Drugs: Legal drugs include alcohol, medications prescribed by a physician, and over -the- 
counter medications. The Company prohibits the abuse of such drugs to the extent that job performance or fitness f or duty is adversely affected.
 
 
Illegal Drugs : Illegal drugs include those controlled substances and inhalants under federal or state 
law, which are not authorized for sale, possession or use and legal drugs, which are obtained or 
distributed illegally. Th e manufacture, use, possession, sale, purchase or transfer of illegal drugs by an 
associate is prohibited. Arriving on company property with the presence of drugs or alcohol in an 
associate’s blood stream is prohibited and will result in immediate terminat ion. 
 
Medical Standards : Medical standards for employment purposes include physical ability to  
perform essential job functions with no detectable levels of illegal or prohibited substances in the body.  
 
Testing of Applicants: All applicants being considered for employment will be drug - tested as part of the 
pre-employment process. Applicants will be required sign the Pre- Employment Applicant Statement – 
Background Check, Drug Screen Test, & Reference Check Consent and Release of Liability Form. Refusal on the part of an applicant to sign the release form or submit to the pre- employment 
consideration will result in the applicant no longer being considered for employment.
 
 
The applicant’s ability to meet the Company’s medical standards will be transmitted directly to the human resource department who will keep the results strictly confidential. If an applicant’s test is positive, they will not be considered for employment at that time and will be informed that they have failed to meet the medical stan dards.
 
     
Testing of Associate – Selection Procedures:  
 
For Cause Testing: Current associates will be asked to submit to a test if cause exists to indicate that    
 
72 
 their health or ability to perform work may be impaired. Factors, which could establish cause, include, 
but are not limited to:  
 
• Sudden change in work  performance  
• Repeated failure to follow instructions or operating procedures  
• Violation of company safety  policies  
• Involvement in an accident or near- accident  
• Discovery  or presence of substances  in an associate’s  possession  or at the associate’s 
workstation  
• Odor  of alcohol  and/or  residual  odor  peculiar to some  chemical  or controlled substance  
• Unexplained and/or frequent  absenteeism  
• Personality changes or disorientation  
• Arrest  or conviction for violation  of a criminal drug statute  
 
If a supervisor, the human resource department, and/or the management believes cause exists or has a reasonable suspicion that an associate may be impaired or using substances, these findings and observations will be documented, and the associate will be sent for the drug screen test. If the result of this is positive the associate will be terminated immediately.
 
 
Customer Substance Abuse Testing: All associates who have access to customer facilities who have 
contractor  or vendor  substance abuse programs  will be requested to submit  to a drug test in 
compliance with those customer programs.  
 
Post -Accident Testing : All associates involved in reportable accidents will be drug -tested for the use 
of controlled substances  as soon as possible  after  the reportable accident.  Any associate who is 
seriously injured and cannot provide a specimen at the time of the accident shall provide the 
necessary authorization for obtaining hospital records and other documents that would indicate 
whether there were any controlled  substances  in the associate’s  system.  Positive  drug tests  following  
an on the-job injury  will result in immediate  termination.  
 
Return- to-Service -Post-Rehabilitation Testing: Associates who return to service after time away from 
employment with the company will be required to submit to drug testing. At that point, if their drug test result is positive, they will be terminated immediately.
 
 
Other Testing Programs: Associates may be required to submit to drug testing when required by 
federal or state law, regulation or by contracted obligation not otherwise anticipated by provision of t his 
policy. In the event that other drug testing is required, every effort will be made to coordinate new testing
 
requirements with the company’s other drug testing provisions.  
 
Testing of Associates – Test and Post -Test Procedure: A laboratory chosen by the company will do all 
testing.  
 
Searches  
At the request of the human resource department, based upon suspicions or evidence of sale, possession or use of controlled substances, an associate shall be required to:
 
 
Submit  to the search  of his or her person  and/or  any personal  article  brought  upon Company premises  
Submit to seizure of any controlled substance found in the associate’s possession. Suspected illegal 
substances will be turned over to the appropriate law enforcement authorities. The associate will be 
required to furnish  the Company  with a physician’s  name and/or  prescription for confirmation of the 
prescription of a legal  substance found  in the associate’s  possession.  
Submission  to a personal  search of personal  articles  as used above  shall  include the search of any 
vehicle brought upon Company premises, Company worksites or used on Company business. A 
personal search also includes a search of items within the associate’s work area, including clothing.  
Failure to submit to a search will result in  termination.     
 
73 
  
Disciplinary Action  
Any associate engaging in the use of alcohol  while  on Company  property,  Company  worksites  or while  
on Company  business,  or who reports  for duty under  the effects  of alcohol  will be required  to undergo 
a drug screen test. If the test result is positive the associate will be terminated immediately. Any 
associate engaged in the possession, purchase, sale or transfer of any illegal drug while on Company 
property, Company worksites, or while on Company business will be terminated immediately and will 
also be subject  to criminal  investigation and/or  prosecution.  Any associate engaged  in the use of any 
illegal drug while on Company property, Company worksites or while on Company business will be 
required to take the drug screen test. If the test is positive the associate will be terminated 
immediately and may be subject to criminal investigation, and/or prosecution. If an associate is 
arrested or convicted for driving under  the influence  or for violation  of a criminal  drug statute,  the 
company  will thoroughly  investigate all of the circumstances and may utilize the drug testing procedure 
if cause is established by the investigation. If drug test is positive, the associate will be terminated 
immediately. If the drug test is negative, and after the investigation has been completed, the Company 
will determine the best course of action to be undertaken for the benefit of the Company and the 
individual. At this point, the associate may be disciplined up to and including termination, depending 
on the circumstances. If an associate is convicted for violation of a criminal drug statute in the 
workplace, the associate must notify the human resource department within f ive days of conviction. 
Associates convicted of violating criminal drug statutes in the workplace will be terminated 
immediately.  
 
Criminal Activity/Arrests  
 
Involvement in criminal activity, whether on or off Company property, during employment may result in 
disciplinary action including suspension or termination of employment. Disciplinary action depends 
upon a review of all factors involved, including whether or not the associate’s action was work -related, 
the nature of the act, or circumstances which adversely affect attendance or performance. Any 
disciplinary action is not dependent upon the disposition of any case in court.  
 
Associates are expected to be on the job, ready to work, when scheduled. Inability to report to work as 
scheduled as a result of an arrest may lead to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of 
employment, for violation of the attendance policy or job abandonment.  
 
Any disciplinary action taken will be based on information reasonably available. This information may come from witnesses, police, or any other source, as long as management has reason to view the source as credible.
 
 
Closing Statement  
 
Thank you for reading our associate handbook. We hope it has provided you with an understanding of the Company’s mission, history, and structure as well as our current policies and guidelines. We look forward to working with you to create a successful company and a safe, productive, and pleasant 
workplace.
 
 
 
Rodney Franklin MD, MBA  
Chief Executive Office  